## February 9th - SIG Registries meeting

### Agenda

- updates on the Bytecode Alliance, the Technical Steering Committee, and the SIG process
- user stories for the registry MVP — https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QV0iXQBEqnE9CtNAhwH-oD7PBRnfeREj2nWZmw_zO8M/edit

- Updates on the proto-TSC
    - Till: We have full approval from the board on the charter.
    - Till: Made more progress on publishing the governance repository.
    - Till: No promises but governance repository may be public after Board meeting pending blog post (Ralph).
- User stories document
    - Nathaniel: We know that a build process will produce artifacts. There is important build metadata that needs to be preserved. We need something to allow inputs from the build system.
    - Nathaniel: Build metadata: Hash of the git commit used as input, LICENSE of the code, Hash of the build environment used to produce the build, distribution permissions. Could be KV store or toml configuration. Impl detail.
    - Luke: We can use "package" abstraction (defined in grammar)
    - Nathaniel: Need to be able cryptographically link metadata with the package. Metadata should not be detachable nor replacable; Typically takes the form of signature produced over the build metadata. If signature is detachable, metadata can be spoofed.
    - Radu: Is this a larger discussion about signing artifacts in general?
    - Nathaniel: Maybe a user story about signatures is needed. Need facilities to transform artifacts and sign during the software delivery process. Artifacts need to retain integrity between steps of the software delivery process. Metadata needs to be preserved to be able to reconstruct the steps to produce an output.
    - Michelle: Do these steps exist in CI?
    - Nathaniel: Can be manual or automated.
    - Radu: Should we have this as a higher level signature discussion?
    - Till: As a package author, I want to be able to associate structured, but open-ended metadata with the package when uploading it to the registry, and have that metadata be part of the signed artifact.
    - Till:
        - As a package author, I want to be able to associate structured, but open-ended metadata with the package when uploading it to the registry.
        - As a package consumer, I want to be able to retrieve the metadata sets associated with a package as well as its signatures
    - Nathaniel: Relationship of metadata sets to signatures is 1:N
    - Radu: Static assets should be its own discussion but implementation should not be defined in user story.
    - To be continued (Merkle construction of package layers)
