## March 30th — SIG Registries meeting

### Agenda

- final pass over the user stories - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QV0iXQBEqnE9CtNAhwH-oD7PBRnfeREj2nWZmw_zO8M/edit#heading=h.gqmuqgumciwt

- the HTTP API
    - Bailey: we used to do API design with Stoplight. It is nice that you can sketch requests and responses.
    - Luke: Stoplight + screen sharing might be a good idea.
    - Nathaniel: before this, we discussed coming prepared to talk about our API. We thought we would discuss it to see what people think about it.
    - Nathaniel: this is not about the entirety of the registry, we are concerned with the provenance of objects, and how these objects can be used. If we wanted to adopt something like this, this would be underlying a more intelligent API that would do things like component queries. This intents to propose what we think in terms of the data model.
    - Roman: this is a generated doc, hosted on GH pages.
    - https://rvolosatovs.github.io/drawbridge/
    - ^^ this might change
    - Roman: the basic building block is a node, which can be a file or a directory. Each node has inheret properties (digest of the content, length) and exherent properties (where did it come from). The inherent properties are the hash, exherent properties are their own "node entry".
    - Roman: a node is either a file, or a directory (collection of node entries). A node may belong to multiple directory nodes. A directory is a case-sensitive name (representable in an URL).
    - Roman: inherent properties
        - content (for a directory, key/value mapping).
        - we used custom media types for a directory structure (vnd.drawbridge.directory.v1)
        - content length (length of the JSON for a directory, raw byte lenght for the file).
    - Nathaniel: there are two files in this directory, `Enarx.toml` was uploaded as part of this upload to this tree's tag. On the other hand, the `assets` folder is mirrored from another location. TL; DR you can mount trees and be able to reconstruct where the contents came from.
    - Roman: we also have tags, which are immutable mappings of semver version string to a node entry. A tree is node entry identified by a tag
    - Ralph: with mirroring, is it impossible to set up recursive mirroring?
    - Nathaniel: circular or mirroring?
    - Nathaniel: it's not logically impossible to create recursive mirroring, but not circular.
    - Ralph: from an implementation detail, how do you wish to limit those recursions?
    - Nathaniel: by making the people pay for the data.
    - Ralph: at world-wide scale, recursion is pricy.
    - Nathaniel: the challenge we have - while we care a lot about the component model, it is just a subset of what things that will be deployed. Another type of component would be "wasm compiled version of the Python interpreter". But these two (app and interpreter) are not related, you can combine the two in an `Enarx.toml` file to describe how they should be deployed. This also propagates signatures across, so you can also get the signature, and re-sign the new combination.
    - Roman: we can also create a tag (PUT). We can also yank a tag (up for discussion). The way it works, you can yank a tag (not shown for queries).
    - Nathaniel: the problem boils down to inherent vs. exherent properties. When an inherent property changes, it's an integral change to the data, whereas exherent data is metadata. Without this separation, the top-level of the Merkle tree would be a different hash, so you would have to introspect into the object. For any given node, you start with the node, and 3 properties are derived: content digest, content length, and content type, all derived directly from the content. (for type it's not infallable).
    - Luke: can you override the content?
    - Nathaniel: yes. It's currently derived from the content. The 3 inherent properties forms "meta", which is hashed. This produces the last digest. The actual node itself is the "entry", the structure of everything including inherent and exherent properties.
    - George: what are the parts you would consider highlighting?
    - Nathaniel: the distinction between inherent and exherent properties. We try to create a distributed design. Cryptographic algorithm agility, other designs choose a single hash, which is never a good idea. Although it's not subtle, we have taken great care to only reuse primitives from other standards (not yet standardized), and we hope we chose best practices. I want to also stress that what we are suggesting here is a mechanism for storing, mirroring, and signing an artifact. Any intelligent querying would sit on top of this, and that still needs to be designed.
    - Nathaniel: we have not discussed how to query whether the content store has a node.
    - Nathaniel: we are implementing each set of APIs as a distinct crate in Rust, so each one can be combined in different ways, and constructed as layers. One of the ideas for tagging, when we implement the core tagging service to accept any strings, then you add a semver layer on top of that.

    - huge missed opportunity, ther reality is although git is not perfect, the fact that we all share a common data model for efficient storage and mirroring is essentially.
    - Radu:
    - Nathaniel: we haven't designed the full API. We have talked about mirroring components.
    - Lann: what does a signature in this data model mean, what are the semantics?
    - Nathaniel: the syntax of a signature is a JSON wrapped in a JWS.
    - Lann: what does it mean to have signed an entry?
    - Nathaniel: it can mean a variety of subtle things. The most imporant thing it provides is the ability to validate that an object is untampered from the person who uploaded.
    - Lann: you are describing signatures in general. What does a signature mean in your implementation?
    -  Nathaniel: we are meaning agnostic.
    -  Lann: I am struggling to udnerstand why you would sign if you have digests.
    -  Radu: do we agree we still want to interact with the registry API directly?
    -  Nathaniel: I am suggesting that we should have an API that is something like this, but that it should be common, so anyone who implements the API to mirror etc.
    -  Current Drawbridge Open API Spec: https://github.com/profianinc/drawbridge/pull/22
