# WASI Component Registry Weekly Sync

## June 29th - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Peter Huene, Radu Matei, George Kulakowski, Roman, Bailey Hayes, Nathaniel McCallum, Luke Wagner, Lann Martin,
| Note Taker | |

### Agenda


- volunteer(s) for note taking
- early prototype for publishing a component to the registry using the publishing proposal
    - Roman: why Tokio vs. async std?
    - Lann: no particular motivation
    - Radu: action items: create repo / use existing SIG repo
- the discovery API:
    - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/pull/16
    - Brian is out this week, please review the proposal
- signatures:
    - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/7
    - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/

    - Nathaniel: Lann, thanks for the thoughtful discussion. I started on a Rust JOSE implementation, happy to share that to be used more broadly. Re: your concern, I don't see a reason to support the full complexity of the whole JOSE ecosystem. i.e. we state the features we support. As our needs grow, we can move into some of the areas that are defined (i.e. x509 signatures).
    - Lann: this would be preferable to a complete JOSE implementation. I have concerns about the overall design, not my concerns, but ones I agree with. I don't want to block progress on this. It doesn't seem to be critical enough to hold progress.
    - Nathaniel: my concern with not choosing JOSE is that we don't have anyhting else that is standardized and which has off the shelf implementations. I would lean towards it on a practical side. But I agree that we have to define the subset we want to use.
