## February 2nd - WASI Registry meeting

### Agenda

- updates from the proto-TSC
    - Till: we have the board signed-off on the charter, and I have started putting together a governance repo containing the charter and the SIG registry proposal. This could go out if I have time to wrap it up tomorrow, otherwise by Friday.
- user stories document - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QV0iXQBEqnE9CtNAhwH-oD7PBRnfeREj2nWZmw_zO8M/edit
    - Till: let's start with the user stories.
    - Till: focus on a core focus for a few languages.
    - consensus on adding A-C
    - D,E: searching the registry by interface names or summary contents / or component implementing a specific interface.
    - Michelle: do we mind going back to C for a minute? I want to understand what "to target" means.
    - Till: in addition to components and interfaces, profiles can also be published to the registries. Targeting a profile means that a component would be validated against this profile by not having imports the profile doesn't contain. On the exports side, I am not exactly sure where we are right now (to run in this profile, you need to provide a suitable entrypoint).
    - Michelle: is a profile a type that is stored in the same package with the interfaces and components I can implement, or is a profile a standalone type?
    - Till: I think a profile would be a top-level item a registry could host.
    - Michelle: profiles might refer to different environments. Let me explain an example: you might have a deployment, staging, and production environment. You might have the same interface, but fulfilled by different components. Is a profile referring to each environment, or does the profile contain each type, and you would pick which group you could deploy?
    - Till: the idea is that you could publish a component, then test whether it would run with your target profile. It would be the type of your environment; each implementation would be different, but they would have the same type.
    - Peter: it;s a good question, how we organize the profiles. I could see the usefulness of publishing a profile for a specific envoironment.
    - Radu: what does"validating" a profile mean?
    - Peter: all components and interfaces it references must be legal packages from the registry.
    - Luke: to reply to Matt's question - you are right. If you have a component that runs in your company's profile, you don't have to publish that.
    - Luke: a profile shows up in two different parts of the workflow: when targeting a profile by producing a component, and when implementing a platform, i.e. "I implement this profile". In this case, they are decoupled, i.e. "I run any component that implements this interface", and we could do an early deploy-time check to see whether a component can be run by the platform, before the runtime.
    - Till: it seems like profiles are typed collections of nominally typed interfaces.
    - Matt: so we don't have to store profiles in the registries, but we need a specification for what a profile is. We might be able to go without storing them. I like the idea.
    - Peter: you can definitely author new components without profiles.
    - Luke:
    - Radu: at a very minimum, we want the definition of a profile for the MVP.
    - Ralph: based on the context so far, we should try to get storign profiles in the MVP.
    - Radu: are there any objections to storing profiles as well?
    - Nathaniel: if we don't store profiles, can we restore the merkle tree?
    - Luke: I think so, profiles are just additive.
    - Nathaniel: so the reconstruction of the environment is done at the final resolution.
    - Till: moving on to D and E
    - Till: E is a bit more interesting and less common, asking an implementation of an interface. A post-MVP item is getting all missing implementations.
    - Radu: E will inform a lot of the future decisions
    - Matt: I would really like to have E as well.
    - Matt: i have a question on D: I might be misreading itm, but what is summary contents>
    - Luke: some human readable summary contents, or description.
    - Till: there are some obvious additions here like tags, namespaces. We are not talking at all here about organization, we should have namespaces.
    - Till: does anyone have an objection to D or E?
    - Till: one thing that doesnt have to be in the MVP is the idea of signed-off, or trusted by other packages.
    - Nathaniel: as long as it;s stateless, thats fine, but with state, you need to revoke as well.
    - Till: these are all reasons it;s not in the MVP..
    - Till: it sounds like we have consensus for D and E.
    - Till: I can speak for F: the registry should be easy to host, as opposed to crates.io, which is very hard to run. Because of the second part, and we discussed this within this group, there are compelling reasons for wanting to have separate private instances. Does anyone disagree with this, is this under-defined?
    - Till: it sounds like we have agreement?
    - Till: who can speak to G?
    - Nathaniel: I created. The concern here is poorly defined, but it's about creating an ecosystem. We need content.
    - Ralph: for the MVP I'd like to have the interfaces set up to ingest the build metadata.
    - Nathaniel: we will probably need a follow-up spec for this, I am not trying to put this on the MVP, just trying to not have this dropped.
    - Till: we need some structured metadata for builds, is there any disagreements on including this?
    - Till: it might be worth combining G and J and clarifying the requirements here.

- Improving the Cryptographic Integerity of a Canonical Bindle Invoice - https://github.com/deislabs/bindle/issues/292
    - Brian: improve the guarantee that an invoice, as pushed to the registry, is cryptographically sound. Nathaniel, I'd love your feedbacl on anything else we could add here. I assume the user stories would inform this.
- Does the bindle format currently work for components and for wasm authors? Is there anything else that would make the package format better?
    - Michelle: it occured to me that we've been talking about registries, but I don't think we talked whether the Bindle package format for people authoring Wasm modules. For people who have been working on components, does the Bindle package format satisfy current
    - Nathanie: if we try to talk about this we might eat a lot of time. I think we want to talk about the MVP.
    - Michelle: we could sit on this question and come back next week?
