## April 13th — SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Michelle Dhanani (Fermyon), Peter Huene (Fastly), Luke Wagner (Fastly), Brian Hardock (Fermyon), Till Schneidereit (Fastly), Radu Matei (Fermyon), David Yamnitsky (Tangram), Nathaniel McCallum (Profian), Taylor Thomas (Cosmonic), Connor Hicks (Suborbital), Isabella Tromba (Tangram), Roman Volosatovs (Profian), Ralph Squillace (Microsoft) |
| Note Taker | Michelle Dhanani, Brian Hardock |

### Agenda

- volunteers for note taking
- welcoming new SIG members and meeting attendees
    - Connor from Suborbital
    - David and Isabella from Tangram
- an HTTP API for querying components - https://hackmd.io/@radu/rkoq-cZ45
    - Radu walking us through HackMD document
    - entiy: component, interface or profile
    - Nathaniel: Is possible implementation for uploading metadata by parsing binary on upload
        - Radu: No opinions on how metadata is extracted and uploaded at this point
    - Nathaniel: Should add License field to ComponentDefinition
        - Agreed
    - Nathaniel: Should we have summary description?
        - summary description is shorter than say a description
    - Till: Can iterate on the fields via comments
        - Nathaniel: Agreed
    - Nathaniel: inherent vs exherent
        - Inherent properties/data: part of the cryptographic measurements of the content itself (imports, exports)
        - Exherent data: derived from the usage of the content (i.e. name, version, description, labels)
        - Nathaniel: authors may be inherent data, same with dependencies
        - Discussion around terminology being used
        - Ralph: Would be great to use more obvious terms, asks Nathaniel for comments regarding what is and is not cryptographically inherent
        - Radu: safe way forward is to split up the fields in two different buckets
        - Nathaniel: What does "authors" mean?
            - Radu: re-use definition that npm uses
            - Radu: let's have a discussion on what authors means
        - Till: let's not be hand wavy but choose to define at a later date if not now
        - Nathaniel: Agreed
        - Everyone: no disagreements
        - Radu: Adding definition of authors to agenda for next time
        - Radu: Question around what should returned with query
        - Luke: separate parts of API (breaks it down)
- REST API example (Brian)
    - would be nice in the future to transition to OpenAPI schema
    - Brian: walks through doc
    - Taylor: This looks good. One clarification: might not be a need for a list of components.
    - Nathaniel: Like this assuming /components is not a fixed prefix
    - Nathaniel: doesn't like overloading labels with License.
    - Radu: Return full metadata list of a subset?
    - Nathaniel: Some of these queries want to return certain things vs others
    - Brian: Let's iterate on the OpenAPI schema as next step
    - Radu: gone back and forth on version resolution. I don't think we have a good answer for that just yet
    - Radu: SHould be able to just upload wasm? or metadata + wasm.
    - Nathaniel: Submitting core wasm and having parsed out would be my preference. What about things that are not fully component-ized. ex. union of Python runtime and app.
    - Radu: Good to have both options
    - Luke: Single file-ness is the goal.
    - Does anyone have strong opinions aginst working on this as a starting point for Open API?
        - Silence as agreement
- multiple implementations for the storage layer
    - Ralph
    - Strong opinions on both sides of the argument so let's discuss
    - Ralph: My objective is to provide larger context. Work we're doing here is critical and hard and will take longer than we expect. Time will be well served. There will be multiple implementations in the world so what should BCA do in these situations. I work with ACR team. Also work with github container registry. Design of the surface is critical factor. Saying this to table set.
    - Nathaniel: Echo what Ralph says. Not focused on an implementation. Focused on data model and exposed to clients so that clients can do all the cryptographic operations. Only looking at APIs at this point.
    - Radu: Recap. We're in agreement that the API we're using can be implemented by multiple storage implementations.
    - Luke: also agree from fastly context. May be some crates close to the API that would be highly reusable and this should be a thing.
    - Brian: gonna need to agree on certain crates to use (pom, axom)
    - Nathaniel: We're using axom
- Radu: Please comment. Will start thinking about CRUD operations for components since that is the most discussed package.
- Till: Where should all these definition live? Obvious BA repositores.
- Till: Should also have a component API. Should dogfood components for the implementation of this.
