## April 6th — SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Michelle Dhanani (Fermyon), Peter Huene (Fastly), Luke Wagner (Fastly), George Kulakowski (Fastly), Bailey Hayes (SingleStore), Michelle Dhanani (Fermyon), Brian Hardock (Fermyon), Lann Martin (Fermyon), Radu Matei (Fermyon), Taylor Thomas (Cosmonic), Nathaniel McCallum (Profian), Roman Volosatovs (Profian) |
| Note Taker | Michelle Dhanani |

### Agenda

- volunteers for note taking
    - Michelle and anyone else who wants to help
- welcoming new SIG members and meeting attendees
    - no new members
- the SIG process, governance, taking decisions, code of conduct
    - Postpone for update from Till or Ralph
    - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/governance/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md
    - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/governance/blob/main/operational-principles.md
- formalizing scheduling demos
    - announce meeting before or in the HackMD before the meeting
    - 10-15 minutes for demo + discussion
- updates on the `wit-bindgen` implementation for components -  https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wit-bindgen/pull/183
    - MERGED! woo!
    - new tool called wit-components - for producing components
        - currently updating wastime to execute components
        - wit-component is going to be the basis of cargo-component
    - In the future, should be able to link components
        - linking will require a new tool (probably not going to use wasm-link)
- what object should I expect when doing a GET from the component registry?
    - In the past, we've talked about implementation details. It would be good to start exploring
    - Discuss types of objects tools interact with when communicating with the registry
    - Am I get an opaque blob or am I getting something that is looks semantically like a WASM component?
    - (Luke) Some cases require just binary with specific Mime type. Also encountering cases where you want to bundle static assets, we might want to decouple code and data.
        - Single file representation vs. tree form.
        - All the bits vs description as if component was a directory with nested things.
        - HTTP API with Accept header that gives you what you require
    - (Nathaniel) Alternating Accept header is the way we envisioned working with Drawbridge API. In alignment with Luke.
    - (Lann) What does the resource look like
    - (Nathaniel) Drawbridge is a collection of APIs. Can list tags which can be wrapped in an intelligent queries.
    - (Taylor) Want to be able to upload related things as part of one component. Worth exploring quic route.
    - (Michelle) pro
    - (Lann) About listing components and discovering components. Not so much fetching an artifact you want but on component discovery, metatadata, authorization. Those are the harder things to agree on upfront.
    - (Taylor) Storage layer decoupled from registry API
    - (Nathaniel) Drawbridge API not just a storage API. It's the API exposed to clients.
    - (Lann) Drawbridge not backend but paraellel.
    - (Radu) We keep not talking about the Registry API. We keep going back to storage.
    - (Luke) Should we shift our discussion to talk about the initial discovery
    - (Brian) Merit in going back and forth to
    - (Radu) discussion of storage layer apis is valuable but we're not talking about the initial discussion of how component tooling interacts with the registry API.
    - Resolution: GET request should return a component or a package that contains a component and metadata
    - (Radu) What does the package look like?
    - Discussion on where metadata lives
        - Inherent (data that should be part of the crypotgraphic inherent) vs exherent data
    - (Radu) What types of metadata do we want associated with a package?
        - Version, authors, etc.
    - (Lann) On request to get the latest stable verison of a particular named package? How do we get the latest version of a package?
        - (Nathaniel) Semver queries but also may want to say what is the latest version that is compatible with X. Need more data to do intelligent queries.
        - In drawbridge, you can GET a package and get back a list of versions or you can do a  on the same with the semver query and get back what package satisfies the query.

For next week:
- What metadata fields we want based on the metadata we discussed?
- Lets use OpenAPI tools to start modeling the API
