# Jul 31 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
2. Other agenda items

## Attendees

* Eric Gregory
* Calvin Prewitt
* Kate Goldenring

## Notes

* WASI 0.2.1 is coming out soon, how do we want to expand WASI.dev to display the new release? 
  * Should we be linking to WebAssembly/WASI or their individual page? Not clear how the release will be displayed. 
  * Calvin: the release should have the WIT as a Wasm binary artifact that can be pulled from GHCR
  * Eric: So we could just add a column and link to the GHCR where the package is pullable from https://github.com/orgs/WebAssembly/packages?repo_name=WASI
* Add `@since` tags to the component book WIT section
* Eric will have phase 1 and 2 proposals added in the next day or two -- pulling from https://github.com/WebAssembly/WASI/blob/main/Proposals.md
  * Maybe add a call out on how to join the effort (reaching out to a champion on Zulip) and create a new one
* Rust WASI p2 support is a prerequisite to adding support for Wasm in Rust upstream http libs
* Do we need a blurb about registries/distribution on WASI.dev. Explaining what registries are but not necessarily having a how-to. Work in wkg is not there yet, so limited in what you can do with OCI. Warg stuff is in a better spot. Works on Warg and wa.dev
* 

## Action Items

* [ ] Kate: add issue on component book to document `@since` tags
* [ ] Kate: add issue on component book to track rust toolchain support for P2
* [ ] Kate: add issue on component book to track native tinygo support for P2
