# Feb 28 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening: Welcome to the kickoff meeting of SIG docs. Will vote on co-chairs at the end of the meeting. Introduce ourselves and what brings us here.
2. Announcements
    1. Review [charter](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/governance/blob/main/SIGs/SIG-documentation/proposal.md)
    2. Review current documentation projects ([component model book](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs))
    3. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
3. Other agenda items
    1. Review of docs breakout discussion from Plumbers Summit
       1. Preparing docs for Wasm I/O and KubeCon (March 14-22nd). How can we best onboard people onto the Component Model?
       2. Update projects to link to component model book WIT
       3. SEO
       4. More language guides
       5. Where do i ask my component model questions? Zulip. Do we need a specific channel?
       6. WASI docs
       7. WIT interface docs
          1. @doc proposal
          2. keep docs in interfaces
          3. tool for rendering Markdown/HTML for WIT interfaces
          4. docs are not carried forward into bindings for JCO
    2. How do we handle docs project management?
    3. Call for co-chair nominations and vote on co-chairs
    4. When to meet next?
    5. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Kate Goldenring, Fermyon
* Eric Gregory, Cosmonic
* Thorsten Hans, Fermyon
* Bailey Hayes, Cosmonic
* Danny Macovei, JAF Labs 
* Sohan Maheshwar, Fermyon
* Calvin Prewitt, JAF Labs
* Merlijn Sebrechts, UGent-imec

## Notes

* **Notes procedure**: We will push meeting notes directly to the meeting repo for now. If we find we want more collaborative notetaking in the future, we can introduce HackMD or another solution as an intermediary step. Eric will serve as notetaker for this meeting.

* **Origin and charter**: SIG Docs is intended to maintain documentation within the Bytecode Alliance GitHub organization. For some projects we may be recommending documentation rather than creating it; in other cases it might be a matter of creating tooling (for example, tooling to make WIT docs more accessible).

* **Preparing docs for Wasm I/O and KubeConIn advance of KubeCon EU and Wasm IO.** What do we want in addition to refinements on the Component Book?

    - Bailey proposed clearly defined user journeys: 3-5 stories including building CLIs, HTTP, and using components with other components. Using WASI and knowing what the pieces and parts of WASI are is kind of confusing right now. We DO have docs in the WIT definitions, but finding easier ways to surface that would be good.

    - Merlijn raised the question of centralizing documentation around the Component Model book. Kate noted that Ivan was passionate about keeping WASI documentation separate. There has been discussion about creating a separate WASI book and hosting it in the same place. We also have WASI.dev.

    - The group discussed what we imagine documenting when we talk about documenting WASI.

        * What is it exactly? What can folks expect from it in terms of backwards compatability? How do you actually build new interfaces? Not necessarily to add them to WASI, but simply using the WIT language. 

        * A "[docs.rs](https://docs.rs/) experience" for WASI, showing how interfaces relate to one another.

        * A landing page that brings together the pieces of the Wasm ecosystem: explaining WIT, explaining the Component Model, and so on.

* **Danny shared [preview.wa.dev](https://preview.wa.dev/)**, which auto-generates docs for interfaces. This is the user story of consuming published interfaces. David and Danny agreed to a separate conversation about licensing and how this might connect to BCA work on Zulip.

* **Where do we send people when they have a question about components?** The current answer is Zulip. If that is the decision, we need to link Zulip to every piece of documentation we have. 

* **What should we prioritize as our immediate goals?** What does project management look like for us?

    - A landing page (likely on wasi.dev) connecting resources in the ecosystem, as discussed above: a useful path for folks at Wasm IO and KubeCon, organized around high-level user stories.

        * Eric will serve as champion for this project and plan further in Zulip.

    - With respect to general documentation efforts, Kate raised the question of module-inclusive coverage. To what extent do we need to cover modules?

        * Merlijn noted that Wamr and a number of embedded use cases will not use components for some time. The group discussed a structure in which WASI.dev introduces users to fundamental concepts, then paths out to particular use-cases. Merlijn will add an issue to wasi.dev.

    - Thorsten suggested linking the Component Model book on wasi.dev and added it as an issue.

    - Calvin suggested talking about wasi-virt more, including documentation and use-cases.

* **Meeting cadence**. The group agreed to a weekly cadence, meeting next on March 6, 2024.

* **Co-chairs**. Danny and Kate were elected co-chairs. 

## Action Items

* [ ] Work through the Component Book to try to get examples working again. (Kate)
* [ ] Coordinate Landing Page project. (Eric)
* [ ] Elevate privileges for co-chairs. (David and Bailey)
* [ ] Discuss preview.wa.dev. (David and Danny)
* [ ] Submit issues for specific wasi.dev proposals on GitHub. (All) 
