# Sep 25 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. fitzgen: gathering interest in a Wasmtime "cookbook" effort
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Nick Fitzgerald
* Kate Goldenring
* Eric Gregory
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

### Wasmtime cookbook

* Nick: I have this idea that a lot of people have similar scenarios when they come asking for help on Zulip on the wasmtime channel. It would be nice if we had a cookbook that said, “So you want to do X…here’s the recommended approach.” 
* This doesn’t necessarily mean having a lot of code so much as an architecture of how you use wasmtime. (Code samples of course always great!) 
* It would also be interesting to survey what other runtimes document and see what we might be missing comparatively.
* I don’t really have the bandwidth myself, but wanted to gauge interest here. 

* Kate: One thing we could do as a group is assess most commonly asked (or just very relevant) questions being asked in Zulip. 
* It’s also been brought up that we could surface information in Zulip simply by making it publicly searchable. 

* Danny: Could we build on [the Wasmtime book](https://docs.wasmtime.dev/introduction.html), which is now sort of out of date? Or should we replace it entirely?
* How much of what you’re thinking is about components?

* Nick: The Wasmtime book does kind of lack in component docs. I do think it makes sense for it to continue to exist as a separate entity, since it has a specific audience - folks often embedding wasmtime in their application, for example. 
* More generally, Wasmtime book is for people who want to run rather than produce .wasms.
* Example use cases:
    * FaaS
    * I don’t have an OS - how does this work?
    * Compile time matters a lot to me - how do I configure winch?
    * I want to make a plugin architecture for my app…I’m masking a MS paint clone and I want people to be able to add new brushes with a wasm module, here’s how you put wasmtime inside your application to extend it in that way
    * I’m writing a game and I want to have mods that are written in wasm
    * A lot start looking similar when you go down the plugin or mod route.

* Kate: I think one thing we could do around this…with the component book, we started with three lang guides using the structure of the original three. We could do something similar here, start with 2 or 3 architectures and then aim to fill in the rest through a model like that.
* How can we surface more of these common questions/needs?
* Nick: We could post this list in the wasmtime channel of Zulip and ask for others’ thoughts/asks.

* How should Zulip triage work? Discussion of using label in GitHub issues.
* Nick: Regular conversation has worked best for me in similar cases.

* We could do triage sessions in the Wasmtime biweekly meeting.

### Plumber’s summit session

* We’d like to PSA wasi.dev, especially earlier phase interfaces
* Want to discuss bytecodealliance.org and pointing to docs
* Gap identification
* Registry docs
* Language tooling docs
* Nick’s proposal to work on wasmtime docs
