# Apr 24 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. Composition/WAC/disoverability in Component Book (https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/129)

## Attendees

* Ryan Levick
* Daniel Macovei
* David Bryant
* Calvin Prewitt
* Kate Goldenring

## Notes

* **Danny's Component Book PR with WAC Docs**: Danny added a [PR](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/129) to the component book talking about how several of the tools (wac and cargo-component) can reference components from registries. Cannot merge the documentation until a few PRs go into the associated tools to enable using other namespaces with registries. We discussed whether we want to remove references to composition with `wasm-tools compose` and wasmbuilder.app and instead use wac. Ryan mentioned that it is his understanding that Peter plans on continuing to maintain wasmbuilder.app -- and that wasmbuilder.app will be moved to use `wac graph` instead of `wasm-tools compose`. Decision: Leave in wasmbuilder.app docs but will want to remove references to `wasm-tools compose` and isntead use `wac plug`.
  * `wac plug` PR doesn't have registry support yet -- shouldn't be too much work to add
  * Would be helpful to have people read the PR text even if the tooling is still in PR. Danny's updates to the tools to support registries should be in this week or the next. `wac plug` will probably be merged today. Ryan can look into adding registry support to `wac plug` in the next couple days if no one else does

* **Deciding how to document tools in component docs**: The book cannot explain how to use every tool for every use case. Ryan proposed a potential rule of thumb we can hold ourselves to: the component model book explains high level concepts and uses the tools to explain and illustrate concepts.For composing components, would be interesting to show two simple components being composed using `wac` (`wac plug` in PR for straight forward composition). If doing more complex composition, then point to `wac` docs.
  * Informal agreement that `wasm-tools compose` is deprecated or aliased to `wac`.
  * Allow documentation process to improve the tool -- if it is difficult to document and execute, we should give feedback to those tools
  * Our calculator tutorial has one package but in reality it may make sense to have more than one and use wac
  * Consider publishing implementations for the `regex` example that the docs hand wave "now you can run this"

* **What should live in CM book vs repository documentation?**:
  * Expect the tools to have more complicated examples -- is this a fair expectation that the tool has a complicated example? Some just have "Hello, World" and then you see blogs etc for bigger examples. Could we have a more complex example within `wac` of 3 component composition?
  * Danny emphasizes how important `wac` is: `wac` is the glue - its a cargo.toml / package.json. It is important to show all it's functionality, including using it to interact with registries. Danny mentioned that it seems like he is the only person currently using `wac` with registries due to lack of awareness.
  * Kate suggested that we document it all in `wac` repo and then next meeting we discuss how to reference or elaborate on it from component book.

* **What registry namespace should be used for Bytecode Alliance project examples?**: Don't want to weigh down `bytecode-alliance` but maybe `bytecode-alliance-examples`

## Action Items

* [ ] Document `wac` updates in `wac` repository
* [ ] Consider namespace naming for BA examples
