# Dec 18 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Kate Goldenring
* Eric Gregory
* Danny Macovei
* Timo Stark

## Notes

* BA site updates
  * Timo's contribution PRs should be up soon
  * Going to do contribution PR soon and then content changes in the new year
* Look at project board - pulled in a few issues
* Wasmtime plugins example?
  * host plugins are hard to document
  * library approach
  * example was connect four and plugging in distinct opponents
  * Happening at runtime vs loading in the wasm execution time
  * Are the plugins Wasm or host code? As long as they are communicating across WIT
* PR in wkg with wkg.lock file that will make it easier to document registries
* Next meeting January 15th

## Action Items

* [ ] Create issue on BA site repo to add a page for docs references
* [ ] Create issue on BA site repo to update projects list and describe project maturity levels
* [ ] Create issue to discuss repo for all projects to use as a source to pull in for projects page
* [ ] Create issue on BA site to rename news to blog 
* [ ] Update README and add CONTRIBUTION.md in BA repo about adding a blog and testing locally - Timo
