# Wasm+ML Working Group &mdash; November 28

See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend.

### Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Please help take notes &mdash; thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Proposals and discussions
    1. Request feedback on [wasi-nn#64] and [wasi-nn#65], Stuart Schaefer
    1. Discuss moving meeting time due to conflict, Andrew Brown

[wasi-nn#64]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-nn/pull/64
[wasi-nn#65]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-nn/issues/65

### Attendees

- Brown, Andrew
- Sun, Mingqiu
- Stuart Schaefer
- Hung-Ying Tai (hydai,wasmedge)
- Matthew Tamayo-Rios
- Wilson Wang
- Justin Janes
- Ayako Akasaka
- David Justice

### Notes

No meeting transcript, see notes below:
- __error handling__: Stuart Schaefer discussed his PR to provide a new resource type for errors
  ([wasi-nn#64]). The new error type has a structured code plus backend-specific data. There are
  other ways to do this: Java/C# would use some kind of variant with inheritance, but that kind of
  expressive power not needed here. Stuart evaluated the compatibility of this approach with other
  WASI specs but each has a different approach &mdash; what is "best practice" here? The variant
  approach is more powerful, but does it map to WIT-targeted languages? Stuart requested feedback on
  this PR.
- __model versioning__: Stuart opened an issue to discuss the various ways to solve the problem: if
  load fails, will there be sufficient information in the failure to know why it failed? This is
  complicated by auto-detection. Things are too opaque &mdash; too many reasons to understand why
  things failed. This proposal is trying to help the API consumer troubleshoot what went wrong. The
  proposal is simple: return a list of supported encodings plus an opaque string that the user
  interprets, e.g., as a TF version. Andrew mentioned that the opaqueness of that version string
  matches the opaqueness of the model blob. Stuart mentioned starting with an opaque string doesn't
  prevent us from structuring this more formally in the future though we will be limited because not
  all backends can be semantically versioned (e.g., opsets are a different dimension).
- __time change__: Andrew Brown brought up that the current meeting time will conflict with the new
  threads subgroup (the GC slot). What new times are good? Matthew mentioned that the current time
  conflicts with a staff meeting; after 10am is better. Hydai mentioned that the current time is 1am
  in his timezone and moving it back an hour would be even worse. Ayako mentioned being in a
  European timezone. We decided to create a new calendar poll to find a new time. Also, discussing
  the cadence, we decided to keep the current two week cadence to maintain the time slot but cancel
  as needed (e.g., over the Christmas holidays).
- __merge expectations__: Stuart wanted to know how long to wait for feedback for his proposals.
  Previously we have waited approximately a week for feedback before merging; this seems fair given
  the announcement in the meeting as well.
