# April 19 project call

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda
1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Note: meeting notes linked in the invite.
    1. Please help add your name to the meeting notes.
    1. Please help take notes.
    1. Thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Notes

### Attendees

- fitzgen
- cfallin
- abrown
- jameysharp
- afonso360
- elliottt
- uweigand

### Notes

- Status
  - cfallin: reviews, RA2 stuff with Trevor
  - abrown: reviews
  - jameysharp: reviews
  - afonso360: initial SIMD for RISC-V (!!)
  - elliottt:
    - bumping RA2 to latest; need to clean up some remaining moves being
      generated by Cranelift no longer elided by RA2
  - uweigand: no updates
  - fitzgen: progress on tail calls (on Wasmtime side with trampolines)

- More on RA2 moves
  - history: we previously handled "program moves" (move instructions in the
    pre-regalloc program generated by Cranelift) specially in RA2, integrating
    with the handling of moves from RA itself. Allowed for efficient
    merging/combining of effects. However with SSA-ification we removed almost
    all cases where we generate moves in Cranelift (replaced with constraints
    e.g. fixed reg or reuse-input). So we decided to remove program-move
    recognition in RA2 because it's a lot of (now unnecessary) complexity.
    Moves in input program are now just opaque instructions like any other.
    Turns out there were some stragglers; we need to remove those before
    completing the upgrade.
