# Wasm+ML Working Group &mdash; June 11th, 2025

See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend.

### Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Please help take notes &mdash; thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Proposals and discussions
    1. Review "wasi-nn status spring 2025" presentation [slides]
    1. Update on compliance testing framework

[slides]: ./ML-06-11-status.pdf

### Attendees
- Rahul Chaphalkar
- Szymon Kolelis
- Saam Tehrani
- Hung-Ying Tai (hydai)
- Mingqiu Sun
- Andrew Brown
- Johnnie Birch

### Notes

**** The transcribe feature was not used to aid in the notes below.

* It was emphasized early that the goal of the meeting was to reinstate the meeting, recollect progress made  in 2024, report status of wasi-nn, and start the discussion and feeling out what we thought we should and could accomplish for the remainder of the year including potentially moving the wasi-nn spec to phase 3.
* The meeting involved walking through the slides and having discussion on prompted questions.
    * Rahul shared the current status of wit support for the wasi-nn API in Wasmtime and noted that wit support has been there for a while but that he was bringing it update-to-date with the version in the wasi-nn repo.
    * Hydai was asked what was needed to progress the spec and he noted that the best thing is to a have a complete conformance testing suite. He also surmised that perhaps no more extensions to the spec were needed, but acknowledge that we do need to conclude if we've figures out the right way to handle large language models.
    * Saam highlighted questions on security and the lack of a means to mandate and guarantee that only specific backends would be used for inferencing. He mentioned a security specification for platform controlled models was desired.
        * Andrew highlighted there may already exist solutions here without additions to the api but after thinking more, acknowledged the use case.
        * Mingqiu highlighted the ability to run in a TEE for security concerns.
    * Szymon shared his initial attempts at providing conformance testing for the API. He asked questions were asked about capturing logs and what how to assure we were only testing the API. We discussed some implementation details but time was over and we decided to take it offline. The current beginnings was not in a public repository.
    * Before closing the meeting Saam asked about next steps. The response was to think offline about potential updates to the spec and bring ideas to the next meeting regarding his use case needs around security. Further thought was that we would need time to form the next agenda but that a more specific plan of TODOs could come from that before the next meeting.








