# Wasm+ML Working Group &mdash; April 29

See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend.

### Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Please help take notes &mdash; thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Proposals and discussions
    1. Present wasi-nn versioning to allow streams in tensors; David Justice
    1. Discuss how to communicate different graph encoding versions (e.g., ONNX opset); Stuart
       Schaefer
    1. Share a tensor residence PR; Andrew Brown
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_

### Attendees

- David Justice
- Matthew Tamayo-Rios
- Mingqiu Sun
- Andrew Brown

### Notes

Short meeting; no transcript today. Below is a high-level summary of the discussion:
- __tensor residence__: Andrew pushed a PR ([#70]) for tensor residence; asked for reviews. Spent
  time bikeshedding the name of `move-to` since it's not really a "move" (suggestions: `copy-to`,
  `to`). Also discussed that we (and especially Stuart) likely want to keep `backend` and
  `graph-encoding` separate; some `backend`s support multiple graph encodings.
- __streams__: David mentioned that full streams support is not necessary now; wait until closer to
  the preview 3 release when that functionality can be used.
- __versioning__: Discussed the need to version the wasi-nn spec, briefly wondering what the current
  WASI convention is. David volunteered (or was volunteered) to look into this. The idea here was to
  show progress and document change over time via version changes and clear release notes. MTR also
  mentioned that encoding versioning, though a different versioning space than the wasi-nn spec, can
  be quite difficult (e.g., [ONNX versioning]); we may need an opaque string to represent this.
- __implementation__: MTR is looking to return back to his PR to add kserve support to Wasmtime
  ([#6867]) but Pat's departure may affect the review of that PR. Also, on the WinML testing PR
  ([#8442]), David's thought is that we should use the `image` and `ndarray` crates in tests if at
  all possible for user education; previously Wasmtime's vet policy made this difficult due to large
  audits but Andrew will look into whether this is now possible.

[#70]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-nn/pull/70
[ONNX versioning]: https://github.com/onnx/onnx/blob/main/docs/Versioning.md
[#6867]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/pull/6867
[#8442]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/pull/8442
