# Wasm+ML Working Group &mdash; May 13

See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend.

### Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Please help take notes &mdash; thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Proposals and discussions
    1. Discuss how to communicate different graph encoding versions (e.g., ONNX opset); Stuart
       Schaefer
    1. Discuss removal of preview1-compatible Wasmtime implementation ([#8530]); Andrew Brown
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_

[#8530]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime/pull/8530

### Attendees

- dm4
- Wilson Wang
- Matthew-Tamayo Rios
- Stuart Schaefer
- Andrew Brown
- Mingqiu Sun
- Johnnie Birch

### Notes

A machine-generated meeting transcript follows:

Andrew Brown: Alright, so let's discuss this first agenda item. Can you guys see in the meeting chat
the agenda link that I dropped there? Is that visible to you guys? Nope. OK, here, here it is again.
Uh, so the first item on that list is 1. We've kinda talked about but haven't, like fully dove into
and that's how to effectively communicate like different graph encoding versions. So for example, in
Onyx you have different offsets and and different features associated with those offsets, and
there's no like. Right now in the current spec, you can just say it's on NEX, but you can't really
say which version of the graph we're talking about. And so Stuart volunteered a while back to think
through that. And So what do you think, Stuart?

Stuart Schaefer: Umm my suggestion is a query API for, let's call it back end properties.

Andrew Brown: And what would that?

Stuart Schaefer: So if you want to, if you want to simply just say OK, load my model and go, you
can. But if you wanna connect up to the back end and then query the back end for properties, my
proposal is to make a query.

Andrew Brown: And so you'd ask it, hey, what would you ask it? What encodings do you support? Or
would you say would you ask it? Do you support this encoding?

Stuart Schaefer: No, neither I would say give me the properties of the back end, OK. And it's up to
the back end to return a formatted request that you can figure out how to parse.

Andrew Brown: OK. So kind of the first one, right?

Stuart Schaefer: So it could so so it's but so it could include more than you know more than the
opset it could include, you know, which build it could include what system you're on. It could
include lots of things. You're like whatever data we want, that's not necessarily, you know,
specified by us. I would specify. Here's the query, and here's the format of the response, but not
the content of it.

Andrew Brown: OK. And what?

Stuart Schaefer: And then I'd say, here's what we hear that we recommend that a response entail,
right? But not, you know, we we could even do like required and optional, right. But basically, as
I'd leave it as a as an open ended query.

Andrew Brown: And what talking about the format, what kind of format would you wanna return that in?
Would you wanna return it in WIT?

Stuart Schaefer: But what's the what's the? What's the easiest thing for a wasm consumer to parse?
And what you don't want is that you want J songs, then have to have a JSON parser. You know, like
there's gotta be something pretty simple yaml like, you know what it is? What is the simplest thing
to parse?

Andrew Brown: I mean I.

Stuart Schaefer: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: So the component model in the in the width specification you have way you could you
could return a list that contains key value pairs or something like that.

Stuart Schaefer: Perfect.

Andrew Brown: OK. And so then they then the user just has to, you know, sort of cycle through the
key value pairs and understand them somehow. Right.

Stuart Schaefer: Yes.

Andrew Brown: And and they're all kind of be strings. Probably. Uh.

Stuart Schaefer: And they would all be strings and like that it makes it so it's the simplest and
most flexible. So overtime we could basically change what's recommended and what's not. The
implementers could add more if they want, like it just does. It leaves it open for vendors and
others to do with the things that they want to do.

Andrew Brown: Gap. Umm.

Stuart Schaefer: OK, if there are things which seem we find her like the important for a specific
format we could like at the basic idea would be to give someone a a simple query API.

Andrew Brown: So, OK, OK, OK.

Stuart Schaefer: Because the problem with doing versioning is that essentially you get to the place
saying, OK, here's a version and then, well, what if you need other properties? Right.

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Stuart Schaefer: Then I get there. Then you start, you start going down the road.

Andrew Brown: Yeah, and yeah, what if models gain a new feature that that you know?

Stuart Schaefer: Yeah, you use Reco another rat hole of like you know. Well, like, OK, great. It's
Python, but is it you know Python that's been built with Lib CUDA or not? Is it Python that's been
built with? You know, whatever, you know, torch and this. That like whatever might be right, you
could basically imagine asking it like 1000 questions. Which is like I don't necessarily think we
should write NNAPI for everyone.

Andrew Brown: Yeah. Yep. Yep. What? Any other comments from other people? What do you what do other
people think about this?

Matthew: Seems fine to me. Is there is there any? I'm guessing there's no map we just listed and
just listed all we got right, right. Yeah.

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Stuart Schaefer: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: Think going with the sort of unbounded key value pairs. Put as many as you want. Put
whatever you want in there. Uh. Makes sense, yeah.

Stuart Schaefer: Yeah, I I'd been writing it up. I I put a list of this is what we recommend or
require and then the rest you can. Whatever you whatever you want in it.

Andrew Brown: Umm. OK. Uh. Sounds good to me. Do you wanna work on the wit wit proposal for that?

Stuart Schaefer: Yeah, I'm happy to do that.

Andrew Brown: Come. OK. All right, let's shift over to our second agenda item, which is discuss the
removal of the Preview 1 compatible wasmtime stuff. Uh, so in wasmtime up to this point, we've been
carrying a Preview 1 ABI implementation, which is like kind of the old style of doing things. And we
also had a preview 2 compatible implementation which is the new style of doing things. The WASI
subgroup has voted to move to the Preview 2 style stuff, so it's a different ABI. It's a different
way of defining uh interfaces. They all use the component model and so they run on components and
the old preview. One world we run modules and it's just imports and exports that just based on names
string names, right? In the in you know the last 6 to 12 months. Everything in Wasmtime has been
shifting over towards that preview to stuff, and in order to continue supporting the old preview one
stuff they have an adapter that you like glued together with your original module, and then it looks
like a component and it can run in this new stuff. Umm, I've been maintaining the preview one and
Preview 2 stuff because I was like, well, you know, where are we really? But in that 6 to 12 month
period, we've moved the spec forward in the preview to land right. So now we're using features of
the component model like resources that you can't express in preview one world and so as I jump back
into the implementation a week or two ago and I started fixing things up and I got to this point
where I said, well, I don't know if we can continue supporting the preview one style stuff because
in order to move forward, I need to talk about resources and things that like I can't do in the
preview one world. So that implementation just simply wouldn't be the same, right? Umm. And so for
that reason, I submitted this PR, which is currently a draft. Which basically just removes all the
preview one stuff. Uh, it's kind of a drastic PR, so that's why I wanted to discuss it with this
group. What that would do is it would prevent anyone from, you know, running modules that currently
use Wasi. Ann uh in in Wasmtime from from this point on, right. And so you'd have to build a
component that uses wasi-nn to run in wasm time. Umm, that has implications for benchmarking. So
Johnny is here. So he he, you know, currently we use that in one of our benchmarks. Uh, that has
implications for. I don't know. Yeah. Any of you guys using wasmtime? If if. If you guys were using,
you know, old wasian and modules to to run whatever right you you now have to like build components
instead. Umm. And it has implications, I think for other engines like uh, Wasm Edge where you know
they would suddenly kind of be behind, right? Like, why isn't time would move ahead with the new
spec, and they'd be in WASMTIME would implement the new spec and they would be stuck implementing an
old version of the spec that isn't even versioned, and that isn't really Wasi and anymore. And so
that's why I was hoping to bring it up in this forum and see if we could discuss, uh, I'll away to
move forward with this. I don't know should we should we adopt this PR should be not any strong
opinions on this question.

Matthew: So when you say that it needs to be a component or implement a component to use this,
that's the main thing. Uh, and again I'm. I'm putting on my my fastly hat here is. If if someone's
running a wasm just like a standard like they write like a wasm program.

Andrew Brown: A module, yeah.

Matthew: Yeah. Does that mean they won't be able to invoke wasi-nn at all without having to like
componentize it? Umm.

Andrew Brown: That's that's essentially it, yeah.

Matthew: Because I feel like I must be provide like some default easy way of doing it seems like a
like a A. It seems challenging, right?

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Matthew: Like like because my first question when you said this and I was like well so all the code
still there and it's just componentized, but how do I call it? And I know that like there's some
amount of support for invoking it, but I'm like I, I guess the thing that's in my mind is like, how
do I how do I call this now for forget forget about the view from wasmtime thinking about like the
end consumer of this is like some developer that just wants to invoke on the inference API. Let's
say they are using wasm time and they build like a wasm module. What do we? I think we should at
least have some anexample would be like here's a working wasm module that does inference that
implement that does it, that invokes it via the. Components back right? Because I think it it all
depends on how that that is done, right.

Andrew Brown: Yeah, that. That's what felt drastic to me is like it's kind of cutting off that half
of the world. That still is only operating with core modules and I was like I don't really wanna cut
off that. Half the world the but if if we did go with this PR, what we could do is we could say
well, just like the what what other WASI proposals are doing is if you have a core module that like
wants to use Wasi, but it's just a core module, right. You can add the adapter to it and make it a
component, and then you're in the new world, right?

Matthew: Umm.

Andrew Brown: And so we could kind of do the same thing. I think right like I think in a future PR I
could, uh do a wasi-nn adapter that could take your your core module. So you just build a core
module, add the adapter and now you can run it in the new version of wasm then I think.

Matthew: Yeah, I mean that sounds right. I I guess I I probably need to do some research and just
like. Umm, I think my question is much more like literally procedural. Like let's say I had like a
I'm function main or something not.

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Matthew: I know it's not exactly that, but you have function main and I did like and I and I built
it and I got a wasm module and then I started like was running wasm time pass it in that wasm module
there's obviously a bunch of stuff in between there. What do I have to go back and do that function
main to make it run? Umm. And then invoke watching and. Is it like is it like? Ohh, I'd create an
adapter noun inside that main module to load wasian in. Or is it like? I have to turn like my main
into a component and then there's some new way at like some new entry point into my.

Andrew Brown: Nah, it's not. So your your code that the this adapter path that like Dan Gohman and
all those guys figured out is you take your core module that you've built, right and you take this
adapter program and you use a tool in. I think what buying Jen or Wasm tools one of these tools to
like componentize that thing and so your your original program doesn't change your original wasm
doesn't change. It really just gets wrapped up with this adapter into a component. So it's all, uh,
you know, command line tooling thing. No code changes. Does that make sense? I I I you know that's
the approach that they've kind of taken. It's still an extra step right for all those developers who
are just building core modules, so I'm that's why I'm pulling the audience here. This wasn't a clear
cut decision. Go ahead, Stuart.

Stuart Schaefer: So I think there's 111 big question I'd wanna ask, which is, if I remember
correctly the difference between the component model API and the version before we did component
model where quite different E.

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Stuart Schaefer: Right.

Andrew Brown: Yep.

Stuart Schaefer: The way we use resources and all the rest, so it's not a just a command line thing,
right? Isn't it a form of the API also?

Andrew Brown: Well, the adapter would have to try. To he per over those differences, right.

Stuart Schaefer: Uh-huh.

Andrew Brown: I think my my sense is that the older API is actually simpler, right?

Stuart Schaefer: No, no, I know.

Andrew Brown: It had five calls and are.

Stuart Schaefer: But I'm saying is is. Is is great you you've already said that the adapter has to
try to to paper over. Maybe you should do the exercise that says. Can it be done right? Yeah.

Andrew Brown: Yeah, but even if it can be done, do we even want?

Stuart Schaefer: Great.

Andrew Brown: Do we even want that right?

Stuart Schaefer: Why is that?

Andrew Brown: Because that's kind of what I'm trying to weigh here, right?

Stuart Schaefer: What?

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Stuart Schaefer: What I what I'm trying to sort of put forth as this which is that my preference
would be to follow what the the bulk of the wasm groups are doing or wasi groups are doing.

Andrew Brown: Umm. Uh-huh.

Stuart Schaefer: I think as a any form of body right there should be this thing that says this is
how we want you subgroups to to handle this big change and then you'd have to look at it and say
great given that this is what everyone's going to do. What does that mean for us? Can we even do it?

Andrew Brown: Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, that's actually the path. I'm kind of on on. I'm like trying to
match what they've what they're doing with this adapter, but as I look at that, I say. What? Yeah,
kind of. Back to what Matthew talking about. What about the end consumer?

Stuart Schaefer: Sure.

Andrew Brown: Are they gonna, you know?

Stuart Schaefer: But but again like what that means is that what we should be doing today is
gathering feedback back into the rest of the Wasi community to say, OK, we're not going to do it
this way.

Andrew Brown: Yeah. No. Yeah, yeah.

Stuart Schaefer: We don't think any of you should because of the following by I'd I'd rather not be
the sore thumb which does it some different way because we you mean that's not awesome, because now
someone's gonna have to have a really weird tooling story, which is like if I'm using Wasi yen and
KV like Now I gotta do weird, weird stuff, right?

Andrew Brown: Yep, Yep. And that we don't want that.

Stuart Schaefer: Don't want that.

Andrew Brown: Yep. OK, I think I I have been sort of reflecting on that. It's kind of like going
back to the WASI subgroup and sort of. Uh. 3 Clarifying what is the path that you guys expect for
all these wazzie proposals? Right. Is is the adapter thing the way to go and how long are we gonna
keep that preview one style support available right? Because however long they keep it for the
other, well, as you proposals, that's probably how long we should do it for Wasi.

Stuart Schaefer: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: And even if our if our APIs end up diverging, you know, maybe that's just what we do,
right?

Stuart Schaefer: Yep, Yep.

Andrew Brown: Now what about other engines? So DM 4, Wilson. You guys are here from second state.
What's your status on supporting the component model and these like Preview 2 Style APIs?

dm4: Aware of Ohi, as far as I know, we are trying to support still trying to support preview to
what the people too, but our Russian module will. Will ohh still. I think we we will still maintain
our current implementation of the. What's your?

Andrew Brown: So go ahead.

dm4: Because but yeah, because there are some. I think there are some new use case of some of the
bad language models. Yeah, we extend some features in our current implementation. So as far as I
know, we will continue to maintain the the this version of the module, but our engine still I think
of engine still on the way to support WASI Preview 2. Yep.

Andrew Brown: You guys have a timeline for when that seems likely to be done.

dm4: Yeah, the I. I think, uh, I dye will know that I'm not sure. Yeah. Yeah.

Andrew Brown: Stewart is talking about with the, you know, we should match the timeline of the
Wazzie community, how they're doing adapters and proposals and what timeline, how long they
maintain, preview one support, but also with the engines, right? Like if you guys are supporting
component models soon. Then, uh, that that probably changes the equation a bit, right?

Mingqiu Sun: So so so I have a related question. You know, can somebody from second stay? Uh share
the extension that you guys did for large language model. You know what sort of extension that you
feel like it's necessary to support? What the NFL, you know, dealing with. What was that be like? A
useful discussion to happen here.

Andrew Brown: Yeah, I would love to hear that. Uh, you guys are sort of implementing something that
is not exactly when wheezing and it's like more right and like, what's the more part?

dm4: Hmm, like son. Ohh we had some function to unload the graph for. Still, some do some work for
the. Streaming generation about the the the output of the language model. Something like that. Uh.
Yes, they did.

Andrew Brown: Would it be go ahead, man.

dm4: This I think it is can be done in the new new. WASI period two API if and uh, but I'm not sure
when will this happen in the wasn't.

Andrew Brown: You know what might be helpful is, you know, two weeks from now we have another
meeting. Could you guys describe what those differences are like in detail?

dm4: Ohh. Ohh uh about the the extension or modification of the about the ones in files. And yeah, I
think I think we could do that.

Andrew Brown: Yeah, I think that would be good, because if there's things that are necessary to run,
LLM S that wasn't and does not provide. Uh, we should try to figure out what those changes, what
changes we need to make the spec to, to do that. And so if you guys could present your experience
like implementing Llama Edge and all that stuff, that would be great. And also if you could bring us
kind of like an idea of a timeline for when component support would be available in wasmedge?

dm4: OK, I.

Andrew Brown: That sounds good.

dm4: OK, I will call the tie dye.

Andrew Brown: OK.

Johnnie L Birch Jr: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: And if if if this is a bad meeting time for for you guys, feel free to. Suggest an
alternative. Meantime, most of us here are probably in the US. Yep, right. Matthew, you instill in
the US, OK, so we could probably do it in the afternoon, our time and that would be a that would be
like early morning your time instead of late at night.

dm4: OK.

Johnnie L Birch Jr: It Andrew, just keep in mind in two weeks as Memorial Day.

Andrew Brown: Let's not do it two weeks from now. Let's do it four weeks from now. Good call. Umm.
Alright so. So what I take from this discussion? Second state you guys are not opposed to. Uh. The
spec moving forward, uh. Uh, but, but what? I still don't understand is how you're gonna implement
the new version of the spec, right? Like with resources and all that stuff, if you don't have
component model support in Wasm Edge you know are you just gonna support the old, the legacy version
and for how long? I guess I guess we can answer that in four weeks, but that's sort of my open
question on for for a second state.

dm4: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: OK. Well, thank you guys for your feedback on this stuff. Are there any other open
items that we should discuss related to Westin and before we close? All I I will see you guys then
in four weeks we'll cancel the 1-2 weeks from now and in four weeks we'll meet again. So you guys
later.

Matthew: Alright. See ya.

Mingqiu Sun: OK, goodbye.

Matthew: Thank you.

dm4: Thank you. Bye bye.

