# Wasm+ML Working Group &mdash; August 5

See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend.

### Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Please help take notes &mdash; thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Proposals and discussions
    1. Dan to explain Midokura's use case for embedded wasi-nn (30 min, [slides])

[slides]: ./ML-08-05-dd-slides.pdf

### Attendees

- Mingqiu Sun
- Andrew Brown
- Dan Mihai Dumitriu
- Johnnie Birch
- Justin Janes

### Notes

What follows is the Microsoft Teams transcript of the meeting; see Dan's [slides] to follow along
with his presentation:

Andrew Brown: Alright, so the the one plan to present on wasi-nn future WASI subgroup
meeting. So what I plan to do in that changes to wasi-nn over the some future changes that we
announce an intent to try to subgroup process, which would group. And so, uh, you know, if if want
in that announcement or and we'll try to get that in Otherwise, I think I'm planning OK. So Dan, you
have a presentation wasi-nn at your company. Can you tell us a little bit

Dan: Yep. OK. So let me show you like 2 slides How about that?

Andrew Brown: Cool.

Dan: Uh, let me share my screen and presented in public before, so Not secret or say, OK. Can you
see my screen?

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: OK, great. So here's here's the this this So this is basically reading OK. And this has been
used in like trucks backing up in a loading Wanna read the license plate or You know, it could be
like could Another example would be like truck or container IDs and But this example here is using.
Forgive the internal terminology Sonny's image sensor that has an like is essentially a Raspberry
The host is a Raspberry Pi in So what happens here is that the license plate or or multiple IMAX 500
sensor itself. And then it outputs the You know, raw detection data and time. To the to the host
computer, and Then it's all software from the crop based on the original It actually also does like
some raw frame and then it uses the the characters and the numbers And you can see these are Again,
you know for Japanese. So. Umm, but then we're using. That's where we we implemented to wasi-nn in
this example. Umm. And and then finally, you know, license plate to string. You know, just as a
string to example is using this Raspberry computer, but we also have the thing with an MCU with an
ESP So you can imagine that we want on both of these platforms, and and therefore it's, you know we
standardized and the back end Here it's tflite, you know, know ESPN, you know stuff

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: OK. And here is like sort of all the know from end to end in this in So first in the Gray
stuff, it's so we don't have to worry about it's just kind of good to on there. First, there's the
ISP taking into RGB in a reasonable actual first detection network. Uh, outputting this to the host
the data into something that's You know the bounding boxes. They're coordinates and swan. Then
there's the post processing right? Which could be done in software I think we were doing it in then
we're we're using like, you basically. So we actually created like a well, although we might we
might internal Sony you know SDK which beside the point. And then then doing the second Ann and one
thing to bear in we're actually trying to keep memory. You know in this case, because inside our our
wasm application. So when we do a crop for the buffer of the image and then basically a view on that
on that And then that's what we pass

Andrew Brown: Hmm.

Dan: And then finally, we get the the back end so. Any questions so far? Otherwise, let me skip to
the

Andrew Brown: Well, so the so it makes sense.

Dan: yeah.

Andrew Brown: You're kind of using WebAssembly like sequence all the things

Dan: Correct.

Andrew Brown: You keep the the actual like, processing or whatever separate remains outside the wasm
linear Would you say everything that's

Dan: Yep.

Andrew Brown: Umm, you know, understanding would you say everything in assembly?

Dan: Yeah, that's right, though not

Andrew Brown: OK.

Dan: instance. So we we had we created this

Andrew Brown: Hmm.

Dan: application structure which shortly mostly for convenience. I mean, we may change that. So
right now like it works via So you, you know, create a

Andrew Brown: Umm. Umm.

Dan: next thing, kind of like a But we know we may, we may actual module, you know, maybe. But right
now they run a own linear memory, so there's a

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: Uh, but yes. Otherwise it all happens within

Andrew Brown: Cool.

Dan: video and then see if we can If that actually is it full

Andrew Brown: Yes.

Dan: OK, let me let me skip past the So well, this might be so. This is we're using this O IoT Yeah.
Let me turn off the the Music Have at platform, so it end of MQTT broker and here you

Andrew Brown: Mm-hmm.

Dan: You know X509 certificate so does you know mutual end? Uh, OK, sorry. Let's skip past the OK,
this node red before. It's like this old data

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: we coopted its UI basically just of a nice interface. So we created these nodes that

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: application. So we have source which sync which represents like end of the IoT platform and
then Oh, sorry, and we have it's we of more specific logic like decodes the actual string. PPL
detection the names are not Sorry this is like an early

Andrew Brown: Umm. Umm.

Dan: People detection is basically the neural network and Standardized, you know, format can
understand of the mouth Uh open CV does open CV things crapping and sometimes drawing. Uh. And but
let me let me continue So here we sort of, uh yeah, we where we to to actually deploy interface by
creating a sub So that represents the device all this stuff was rather manual You know, it's been
cleaned up a actual inference flow, which Of course it is just translated a Jason specification the
rest API to the back end.

Andrew Brown: Mm-hmm.

Dan: Oops, sorry. Can you still see my screen or?

Andrew Brown: It it looks frozen maybe.

Dan: Oh, shoot, sorry, oht the hell Oh, there it is. OK.

Andrew Brown: Ah, there we go. Yeah, that's good.

Dan: OK, so let me this is a bit This, you know all the setup and

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: looks like finished. Oh, right here. Yep. So basically, you know this is by these by these
nodes.

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: And there are two things There are two things actually top one. Here we send the image with the
show you you know what what the been detected and in the bottom and we do the license plate takes
the relative positions of characters and creates a string

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: And then we encode it in some the back end so.

Andrew Brown: Question this show you said

Dan: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: You know node Reds like kind of It's a way of wiring this up. You get a Jason
specification

Dan: Yeah. Yeah.

Andrew Brown: so the JSON specification infrastructure on the machine instantiate a web assembly

Dan: Exactly.

Andrew Brown: graph. OK.

Dan: Exactly. So the there's on the the the, you know, IoT device has

Andrew Brown: Mm-hmm.

Dan: you know, specification and by then downloading the assembly modules if they're not
instantiating them and then You know, in this flow, so that goes to input of another you

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Dan: the right way.

Andrew Brown: Yeah. Hey, can I ask a this is maybe a just out of curiosity because I was in the
Internet of Things red to do various things and This back in the day when node

Dan: Yep.

Andrew Brown: Why the? Why the desire for right? Like uh. Why? Why is the desire to be able to like
this versus just like BLOB and just be like OK, this everything in order do that.

Dan: Yeah, that's a good question. I mean, I think we, we had this have reuse of common things that

Andrew Brown: Gotcha.

Dan: For example, like we do a bunch data that's sent out of the

Andrew Brown: Mm-hmm.

Dan: include things like you know a threshold isn't, isn't map of time you know and and so on.

Andrew Brown: Hmm.

Dan: And so those are generic enough

Andrew Brown: Hmm.

Dan: And we had this idea that we somebody develop or, you know, without actually writing any That
that's not totally

Andrew Brown: Right. OK.

Dan: But you know we're.

Andrew Brown: Gotcha. Yeah.

Dan: So whether or not this ever ends we'll see. But you know you I'm.

Andrew Brown: Yeah. OK, now it's just a motivation

Dan: I'm explaining what we.

Andrew Brown: You know like like that.

Dan: Yeah. OK. So just the you know the the this is the actual deployment here and then we click
deploy created and now we will see on This is like a status of the well that was that was too fast.
But it it like created all the actual result. So on the left is the is the

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: Do you see the bounding box It kind of flickered in the out just the reading the the the IoT
platform, which is you string, right in just all Latin

Andrew Brown: Hmm.

Dan: That's it.

Andrew Brown: Cool.

Dan: So I've got, you know, we have a for other other types of use built in a very similar way and
know tracking things, crossing like that.

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: But the general idea is that we inference because we need to use

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: way to. I mean, we're wiring them mechanism here, but we need to Somehow, and that's what we
Wasi-nn for.

Mingqiu Sun: So.

Andrew Brown: So.

Mingqiu Sun: So then I have a question on how Do you copy them or? I think you mentioned like you
native environment and do you

Dan: That's right, yeah.

Mingqiu Sun: a resource handle?

Dan: Exactly.

Mingqiu Sun: In that one year, the

Dan: Yeah, we we. So we we use the opaque handles

Mingqiu Sun: OK, so so you need to have a You know spec for that.

Dan: Well, that's that's a good Yeah, exactly. We should. We should have the option to for the for
the actual image

Mingqiu Sun: And you'll have the answer for

Andrew Brown: Ohh yeah. Well, yeah, with, with, with You know, if they should be the That's the the
right thing with

Dan: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: know WASI, 0.2 and above But I I kind of take it, you preview one stuff there.

Dan: Ohh yeah yeah. I I mean you you can. You can imagine that anything we to work.

Andrew Brown: Right.

Dan: But yes, I I think that would So yeah, we we wanna be able to not in in linear memory.

Andrew Brown: Yeah, I guess, yeah. You guys have the motivation the preview 2 stuff. Just just
because you you you

Dan: Yes.

Andrew Brown: Like, yeah.

Dan: Yep.

Andrew Brown: So. So where's this? I think I I remember. Was it Ayako Mingqiu like they Sort of like
a high level view,

Dan: Ah, I echo.

Andrew Brown: media query I think, but yeah,

Dan: Yes, yes. OK. Umm right.

Andrew Brown: This shows us like it was like a This shows us like the nitty Like what? You know how?
How it actually works so that Umm where where is the so can now? Umm, what do you guys plan to do

Dan: Yeah. So I mean we we are trying to the product. So at the moment I think the does not support
multi module

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: application is just one module.

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: It does whatever what you said

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: So we're trying to convince them modules is is an A useful thing.

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: And you know, this is a bit of a have we have a a lot of So, like our Linux code base and

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: are very different for no good

Andrew Brown: Umm. Umm.

Dan: get those to be sufficiently interfaces be stable, but we're

Andrew Brown: Mm-hmm.

Dan: Uh, and that that's not just stuff, but it's it's like native So Sony has like this image
That's very image processing and You know in particular, so all

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: Uh, you know? Cropping, you know tensor.

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: Rescaling, rotating, etcetera. It's very interesting, very same way on on Linux and on, you So
we have to like fix that and

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Dan: source that stuff so that they Everybody, hopefully that'll be

Andrew Brown: Hmm. Cool, I know.

Dan: So.

Andrew Brown: I totally understand those

Dan: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: Especially in the embedded building in their silo and then

Dan: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: you're like, whoa, these two

Dan: Right. So what what we do is my team is

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: engineering and product you know.

Andrew Brown: Gotcha. Gotcha. OK. Question technical question. Going back to the like node red
instance that you create, so

Dan: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: WebAssembly instance. Do you create a new instance you just have one long? Yeah.

Dan: Ah, excellent question. No, they're long lived in this

Andrew Brown: OK.

Dan: Uh, however, and and I think sense that they actually, you what they keep in memory.

Andrew Brown: Hmm.

Dan: So, but we're thinking about stateless. You know, in other words, you type as a stateful or
stateless way, another thing I should our idea, our vision for this is in different languages.

Andrew Brown: Umm. Umm.

Dan: Is somehow, you know, made to You know, we we've tried every

Andrew Brown: Umm. Umm.

Dan: But some of these may be you keep, if you keep some some temporal element, you know

Andrew Brown: Hmm. Mm-hmm.

Dan: then expire it at cetera. We could do that by having an You know storage mechanism or but why I
mentioned the Python

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: could. There are two ways to deal with We could actually run the garbage collector and just
throw again every time, which isn't

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: You know, I think in some cases.

Andrew Brown: Umm, you're talking about running Python within web

Dan: Within web assembly.

Andrew Brown: Hmm. OK. Yeah, it just save yourself some Don't worry about the GCC, you

Dan: Absolutely. Yeah. So I mean basically, you know some form, but you don't have to You know, it's
kind of optional. Like if you don't run it, it'll

Andrew Brown: Right.

Dan: just restart it.

Andrew Brown: Yeah, if you and if you have a chances of that are probably

Dan: Quite know exactly that's right.

Andrew Brown: Yeah. Yeah, that's. I see.

Dan: But, but currently they they run

Andrew Brown: I see that. Umm OK. Alright. Any other questions for Dan? Thank you so much for that
That was that was good.

Dan: Welcome.

Andrew Brown: I I that's those the details Alright, well go.

Mingqiu Sun: Well, actually another question. So and. That I assume that you have lots preprocessing
step before you do What is your opinion on that Do you think they need to be outside the you know
spec space?

Dan: Good question. Yeah, it's a good question. So right, I mean there is the data preparation and
the So you need to provide the right space correctly, RGB or YUV. You know that's a choice you
tensor rotated in the right way. You need to have the scaled and all entirely outside the spec So
yeah, good question. I don't know. I mean, I think what we would actually check the compatibility
set up. So if your model requires such actually metadata that's because it isn't part of the it's
metadata, and then that time. You know, you know, with the that it's compatible. So that isn't in
the spec, but I I've opened to to, to ideas. Then again, Wesley and is even It's not like specific
to So it's a our stuff is.

Andrew Brown: Hmm hmm.

Mingqiu Sun: Umm.

Dan: Our stuff is all computer

Andrew Brown: Yeah, that with the with the new WIT interfaces, creating new interfaces for things is
not And so if you had some special, open CV take a slice of open CV WebAssembly, that's like And it
doesn't need to be

Dan: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: ecosystem. You could just say. Well, here's our slice and make

Dan: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: All right. Any other questions? Justin. Johnny.

Johnnie L Birch Jr: Ohh no thank you.

Andrew Brown: OK. So then it can you send me like had all like put it in the media

Dan: Yeah, no problem, sure.

Andrew Brown: there. And thank you again for the

Dan: OK.

Andrew Brown: This is pretty helpful. Ohh I do have one more question. Anything. Is there anything
in wasi-nn Or like you know, how do you see and going? Do you guys need drastic changes Are you
thinking about going to and what? What do you see in the future?

Dan: You know, I haven't had. I haven't thought hard enough

Andrew Brown: OK.

Dan: answer, but I think what you to go to preview too. Umm. And and then we'll see.

Andrew Brown: Mm-hmm. Yeah, I I guess you guys are correctly.

Dan: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: And so there isn't, you know, It's like still being talked ecosystem, so maybe that's
a.

Dan: That's right.

Andrew Brown: That's part of the conversation,

Dan: Yeah. Exactly.

Johnnie L Birch Jr: Hey, I guess I do. Have a question? Do you know if you have something similar
using For, you know wasian in for

Dan: Oh, good question. I think there are. There are a few companies that direction, so yeah,
exactly. Thank you, golia. Yeah, exactly.

Andrew Brown: Ohh.

Dan: Yeah, so this fairly recent, I week and and they showed me and it actually is very similar,

Andrew Brown: Hmm.

Dan: not in in the details.

Andrew Brown: And they're using WebAssembly as

Dan: Uh. It's new. Yeah, they're they, they newly

Andrew Brown: these guys, OK.

Dan: I don't think it's like super

Andrew Brown: Cool. Mm-hmm.

Dan: The other company that's called Scalable uh, spelled like company called the Network Uh. And
that's like in the kind of space for. Uh security cameras and stuff

Andrew Brown: Mm-hmm.

Johnnie L Birch Jr: Hmm.

Dan: And they they had also something

Johnnie L Birch Jr: OK, it sounds like it's it's

Dan: I think I think there's a trend.

Johnnie L Birch Jr: point.

Dan: It's a, you know, it's a small

Andrew Brown: Umm.

Dan: starting.

Johnnie L Birch Jr: OK.

Andrew Brown: Cool.

Johnnie L Birch Jr: Yeah, that was it.

Andrew Brown: Well, good to hear. Umm. Justin says. Ohh yeah. Jonathan Berry. Yeah, I remember that
back in

Dan: Right.

Andrew Brown: Yeah. OK, good point. Alright, well, if we don't have notes up on the website. I'll
put the PDF up, Dan. When you send that and thank you two weeks.

Dan: Thank you.

Mingqiu Sun: Thank you.

Andrew Brown: But.

Dan: Have a good one, right?

Mingqiu Sun: Thank you. Bye.
