# Wasm+ML Working Group &mdash; August 19

See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend.

### Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Please help take notes &mdash; thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. Upcoming WASI presentation describing progress towards phase 3 ([August 22nd, 2024])
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Proposals and discussions
    1. Discuss final changes to wasi-nn before phase 3 (45 minutes, see [PRs])
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_

[August 22nd, 2024]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/meetings/blob/main/wasi/2024/WASI-08-22.md
[PRs]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-nn/pulls

### Attendees

- Andrew Brown
- Hung-Ying Tai (hydai)
- Mingqiu Sun
- Matthew Tamayo-Rios
- Bailey Hayes

### Notes

Andrew presented the WIP slides in preparation for Thursday's WASI meeting. Some discussion topics:

- the portability criteria concerns fall into two buckets: _opaque model blobs_ and a _tricky test
  suite_
- the agreed-upon, best-case _test suite_ plan is to create an "echo" model: to avoid testing ML
  logic (we only want to test the API), we provide a no-op model (i.e., immediately return the
  output) for various ML frameworks and write tests that use this model. This approach also avoids
  the hard-to-reproduce nature of LLM randomness.
- to avoid _opaque model blobs_, we discussed replacing the current `load` function with
  `load-by-name` ([#74](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-nn/pull/74)); hydai has already endorsed
  this
- if we agree to only accept model names, we may no longer need residence control: Andrew noted that
  a name-loaded model doesn't allow Wasm guests to control _where_ the model runs so allowing users
  to change where the tensor resides is confusing ("should be all or nothing"). Matthew expressed
  concerns about not having HW control on the guest-side; the host-side CLI flags, e.g., would have
  to be very clear. We tentatively agreed to leave residence out for now since it is easier to add
  later than remove.
- in discussions on adding properties to graphs
  ([#80](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-nn/pull/80)), Matthew mentioned that the "properties"
  naming of the feature is too vague: is "hyper-parameters" better? (ONNX has "attributes"?)
- on whether to return errors as records ([#75](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-nn/pull/75)),
  Bailey mentioned that (1) others have chosen to return errors as resources and (2) an error type
  might become a part of the component model in the future; unclear which route wasi-nn should take
  here
- Bailey also commented that they would like a way to _statically_ determine what models a component
  will use; there is currently no way to express this in WIT but it seems like wasi-nn might want to
  specify this if a mechanism were available (brought up: stringrefs, declarative resources)
- Andrew also proposed a high-level _prompt_ interface
  ([#79](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-nn/pull/79)) for accessing LLMs using strings (the
  tensor-based _inference_ interface would remain as another path). Bailey mentioned that streaming
  is now possible due to some wasi-io work; perhaps this should be incorporated. Also, hydai
  expressed concerns that some large models expect data in non-text formats (audio, video); Andrew
  suggested that other interfaces could be added in the future.

Andrew requested further feedback on the last remaining [PRs] before pursuing the next phase.
