# Wasm+ML Working Group &mdash; October 28

See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend.

### Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Please help take notes &mdash; thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. Open PR to switch `wasi-nn` bindings to use WIT, [#104]
1. Proposals and discussions
    1. Discuss conformance rules; Stuart Schaefer
    1. Present need for [#77] which removes `set-input` and `get-output`; Rahul Chaphalkar

[#77]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-nn/pull/77
[#104]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasi-nn/pull/104

### Attendees

- Andrew Brown
- Rahul Chaphalkar
- Matthew Tamayo-Rios
- Johnnie Birch
- Yunus Basagalar

### Notes

A high-level summary of the meeting:
- decided to merge [#77]
- skipped discussion on conformance rules
- discussed need for companies deploying wasi-nn to indicate support for phase 3

The Teams-generated transcript follows:

Rahul S Chaphalkar: So hi, Matthew, I'm Rahul. I haven't really attended these with Johnny Andrew.
You know, recently on the wasi-nn. So yeah, so this certain remove one from Andrew. This will, you
know, like flow of things and we'll just the end of the day where will tensors where name tensors
will actual like tensor. So I think this will be pretty I implemented the back end in in And that
one? We kind of needed a way to pass think like that's what most of Five torch or the lip Tor And
not exactly. You know, like a name and a So we don't. We don't need a set input Fake some names
and some indexes Stuff like that. So. So I think something like with a list of tensors which For
the PyTorch back end, for So this will be I think pretty since we don't need this The set input
like add output is. I think it's more. Geared towards the LLMs I guess expect to for the models
which input. So this is also like just a can see and here it's not a list string, right? Which we
assume that prompt, so The the back end can do what it Like pretty much so I think this One of the
large level model implement with the with the open the TOKENIZER, accepts a string really have a
string data type probably. A hassle to add 1 because I read like before for you know trying the
bits you know the bytes list I think that this one will be The the LLM example which I'm vino
back in for the tokenizer I think that's the summary. Andrew, do you want to say

Andrew Brown: I think we should just merged I think now that I'm looking at

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Hmm.

Andrew Brown: one this thing. It's been out there for a month No one's really had significant Raul
needs it, so I'm kinda like This is a no-brainer, right? Like I'm gonna merge this one Release
candidate version of the this. In terms of the prompt one. Just a little bit more. I feel like kind
of. Should we should. Tested out a little bit more. Like you could use a version of interface,
right, Raul?

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Yeah, probably. Yeah, I yeah, I can do that.

Andrew Brown: It just won't be the official

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Which is fine. Yeah. Yeah, yeah,

Andrew Brown: try it out, right? Is. Have you done that?

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Not well, no.

Andrew Brown: that?

Rahul S Chaphalkar: I haven't done it with the the I just, but I just deployed. I have, like you
know, the base like string data types and stuff

Andrew Brown: Hmm.

Rahul S Chaphalkar: is also more of an example and it's not like I've followed the I view string.
I'll try the compute and the

Andrew Brown: Yeah. So basically you, you've as that PR, but just a different

Rahul S Chaphalkar: I think I've done it pretty trying to work with like. Well, WASI-NN 0 dot 6.0
which is not So that's what I use because.

Andrew Brown: Oh, OK, you're using the old

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Yeah, because I just started

Andrew Brown: Gotcha.

Rahul S Chaphalkar: and you know I was like, it's

Andrew Brown: Yeah, yeah.

Rahul S Chaphalkar: shouldn't be too hard to just I'm just more familiar with the there's no
string type, I'm just the example I've just like said like you know F16 or something, And you
know. Like like that seems to work

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Rahul S Chaphalkar: You know that's not real. Like we don't have the string So yeah, like WITX
wasn't a named tensors as well. And I think just had the like another helper function like hey
something so.

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Rahul S Chaphalkar: So anyway, I'll try this one. It should be possible to use see if I can, yeah.

Andrew Brown: Yeah. That brings up another issue, you're using, the you know was bindings, right?

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Yes. Yeah.

Andrew Brown: So recently. Can I share real quick?

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Now let me stop.

Andrew Brown: This guy. Here. So he he was trying to use those You know in component land, but
they're kind of like wood X And so. What he he's kind of asking And I was like, well, you know,
Like they're old WITX want to use components. And these bindings have to And so he kind of went
off and He made this PR where he's use like components and so he's that. And I'm kinda like maybe
we out what's going on here, maybe What do you guys all think about Should we just kinda switch
the Component bindings. Instead of module level

Rahul S Chaphalkar: It seems like a good idea to me.

Andrew Brown: Yeah. Would you have used if you

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: if the bindings had been

Rahul S Chaphalkar: I would have. Right, right.

Andrew Brown: OK. Alright, I think maybe we should Someone needs to help him, like build's
failing. Failing I I don't. Know, you know, I don't know. What's going on here? But. Yeah. That's
another so so maybe maybe switch to use the the new

Rahul S Chaphalkar: So then the builder the these. Respondings in general.

Andrew Brown: I mean, I think that I I told

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Like the next.

Andrew Brown: I was kinda like well just use

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Right directly.

Andrew Brown: You know. And he was like, no. You know, he, he he felt like in Rust was was easier.
So maybe I was like, OK. I I kind of think the default bindgen, because then you're version of the
spec, right? You can just bring in the spec just work. But because otherwise we're date with the
spec. Someone has to come in and every every time we change this back. Yeah, well, if. Yeah. So we
yeah, Brian, I wish you maintained these bindings. And so it would be helpful if to keep these up
to date. OK. That is that the only On the on the agenda for today suite. Actually. Units. Is that
hey, welcome.

Yunus Basagalar: Yes. Hey, Andrew.

Andrew Brown: I think. Who's Ralph? What? What team are you on?

Yunus Basagalar: I. I mean, I I know, Ralph, but we mean Azure networking team in

Andrew Brown: OK. Is that like Abhishek in

Yunus Basagalar: Trying to run yes.

Andrew Brown: OK, cool. I've met some of those So yeah, are do you wanna talk a

Yunus Basagalar: Yeah.

Andrew Brown: yourself or something?

Yunus Basagalar: Hey, this is Yunus. I'm from Currently working on a basically edge locations and
we are neural networks on the edge The second part of the interest well. So OK, on a high level
that's

Andrew Brown: Yep, Yep, Yep. So actually another so recently. Stewart Schaefer.

Yunus Basagalar: We haven't met.

Andrew Brown: OK. Well, he he has a an agenda item to figure out. You know, we going to define a
test suite acceptable to the WASI subgroup. And also will be able to kinda compliant. You know
they're actually support Waze in the. And.

Yunus Basagalar: I remember I think 2 weeks ago That's that's that. I think that is, is that OK?
Yeah, OK, I remember.

Andrew Brown: Yep, Yep, Yep. So we haven't heard from Stuart. So we'll kinda keep that agenda But
but yeah, that's kind of one

Yunus Basagalar: Can I? Can't I can't ping him.

Andrew Brown: Oh, sure, OK. That'll be great.

Yunus Basagalar: I I probably probably not. We will be joined today I mean, I it's generally people
will, like, you know, bug him to

Andrew Brown: Yeah, yeah, no, that'd be good. We need that. So there's kinda. There's kinda before
we take wasi-nn to phase three. One thing is, you know, we need to review some PRs, like 77. I think
we're just gonna merge Some of these others we still need to talk about. The other thing is we need
to conformance rules for the test Like what are we gonna do there? And then the final point is we
Indications of support from You know, different companies or use, we're going to use Waze and And so
we've already kind of had kind of hopeful that you know few other teams at Microsoft that we can get
enough kind of should. You know resolve any concerns from the WASI subgroup about being used in
production. And so I think they just want to see who is using this in production? If so, good then.
This should be fine.

Yunus Basagalar: Curious like like how they like it like I mean is.

Matthew: Yeah, that's what I was gonna

Yunus Basagalar: Like.

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Matthew: Like like does. Does Luke need

Andrew Brown: You say that again, Matthew. I didn't hear that last bit.

Matthew: For like a much more. So I I guess it's like what does support look like? It's gonna be
should be the people issuing it. So that's gonna actually be a like. A staff engineer at like
Fastly we're gonna do so.

Andrew Brown: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Matthew: And then and like if it's like a making a commitment, they're description of what they're

Andrew Brown: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I asked that same question Because Pat is was cheering the
asked like, hey we we you know. It was clear with like WASI file use WASI file system, right? But
he was kinda he and a few well, but, but who's gonna use to have people who they don't one's
using, right? So. I said. Well, how? How do we how do we show that to reveal the road map for the
And he is like, well, I think if issue of some kind on the West is you know some text there that
Use the Wasi NN specification at the next. Whatever time frame. And then and then everyone. You
know, whoever whoever is would just like, make a comment like that level of commitment. So for
what it's worth.

Yunus Basagalar: I see, I think. I mean, I I I might need to talk So like I I so like I I need to
of that as well. So like I'm probably. Again, I'm guess was saying as talk to my manager or and
manager too to be like aligning I. I don't see any outcome that's we need to talk with those folks

Andrew Brown: We want to like wordsmith the that does indicate support, you no, we don't want to do
this, If they can, you know. They they still have the freedom But we also need to understand WASI
subgroup happy in the there are users of WASI NN. And so yeah, I don't know if so Arkansas here is
like let's go and talk about like what are we What type of language will we And then maybe based on
that and write it out.

Yunus Basagalar: Makes sense to me. I cannot log with people on

Andrew Brown: Oh. So, Matthew, you, you just director. To to see about that.

Matthew: You're also referring to. Companies as users, not users

Andrew Brown: I couldn't catch that man. Something about use companies. That something users.

Matthew: I just meant companies of users, Like basically saying that the the individual person
calling

Andrew Brown: Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's a good distinction, yeah. Yeah, because there's
probably experimenters out there who are And that's cool. But that's that's not really the Like
the ask from the subgroup.

Matthew: Yeah, I think that can.

Andrew Brown: All right. OK.

Matthew: I'll work on that.

Andrew Brown: Cool man. All right, all right. Those, those are the topics that I'll put up some
notes on the on On the machine Learning working Repo thing here. If you're not familiar. Yeah.
Anyways, I I'll, I'll the notes for today. So. So that everyone's clear. I'll dump it here and
I'll make some happened today. And that'll be We'll kind of record the of the other stuff. That's
all I have for today. Any other comments from anyone? Alright, thank you guys. See you in two weeks.
See you later.

Matthew: Andrew, do you have a second? I have a quick question.

Andrew Brown: Sure. Yeah.

Johnnie L Birch Jr: Excellent. Thanks, Andrew.

Andrew Brown: Go for. OK.

Matthew: So I think I'm. I'm coming

Andrew Brown: Thinking about plan.

Matthew: Sorry, let me see if I can.

Andrew Brown: It's like a little muffled and I

Matthew: It's better.

Andrew Brown: it's like, like random words

Matthew: OK. Hopefully you can. Basically I'm I'm thinking that

Andrew Brown: That's better.

Matthew: Basically, make it so that we like. I'm thinking of the sample and I'm like shipping to
what we could do is we could Like models that developers You won't do a big hoopla around Random
CPU only, no GPU through because it'll be the models that load by name. Then I might be able to
pull like a concrete example of a a probably gonna wanna crawl up about and what I expect they'll
Sanitation like how do you Like a passeness thing? If you're creating tensors that any risk of
like you pass in too like some sort of buffer basically what help would would double check. That
create tensor function. The implementation to make sure it's have some sort of like security
thinking like. Since we already implemented the The Intel libraries. Or whatever whatever back end
use ONNX to make it easier. Yeah, so basically I would need see if that's even gonna fly I just
wanted to come to you in If they say yes, then they might we gotta tighten up some things

Andrew Brown: Yeah. Yeah, I think no, that's that's Like I think that would be a there are united
things, we no one's hammering this service, And the getting users using it, let's focus on it.
Like, let's be cleaned up. So I'm I'm I'm totally fine with That's that's good. And and I makes
total sense like just Limit what you release. Load by name definitely.

Matthew: OK, sounds good. Alright.

Andrew Brown: Yeah. Sounds good, man. Yeah, let, let let us know how And and then, yeah, if you
need Raul, Raul now has become an also. I don't know if you saw it. Did you see that? He added a
PY torch back in. So maybe you guys wanna use Py

Matthew: Yeah, I think the the what's going to be the smallest thing Because anything like this is
to every single, every place

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Matthew: that's gonna like that, I think

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Matthew: is like we're gonna do what tour what libraries.

Andrew Brown: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.

Matthew: And yeah. I don't make any. I have no idea like which one I I'm hoping worst case is I can
implementation through 'cause. That's pretty small, but I don't ones.

Andrew Brown: Yeah. Yeah, no, that that makes It's it's a. It's a big. It's a big ask for xqd to
add a

Matthew: And then. And in fact, what I was thinking was just like a cargo crate that time, that
would probably be

Andrew Brown: We did so with Py torch. We audited everything around the With ONNX we audited
everything Whatever the ONNX crate is in So those those crates are built when a certain feature

Matthew: Alright, I will. OK. I may have to bug you for more actually sounds great. And yeah, I
does TCH like compatibility now that's crazy.

Andrew Brown: I don't know if we've tested the but definitely can run some Like, I don't think
you've found

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Yeah, yeah. No. Yeah, it's like, yes, I'm a dozen different. You know like like
function like create itself is huge and I part all the lip torch you know. CC API or C++ APIs? So
like, that's huge. I don't know. It's thousands and thousands of,

Matthew: I see.

Rahul S Chaphalkar: don't know if it's hundred.

Matthew: So it's running things through

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Yeah, yeah.

Matthew: So you still need still need to

Andrew Brown: Yeah, yeah.

Matthew: just basically rust bindings for

Andrew Brown: Yeah, but but the limitation is

Rahul S Chaphalkar: Yeah, it slipped OS, yeah.

Andrew Brown: to say is, out of all the libtorch, wasi-nn only uses 10-15 functions

Matthew: Yeah. Well, I think that's fine this case. So I yeah that that's. That's fantastic.
Because because.

Andrew Brown: Especially if you guys limit I think that's the scary thing.

Matthew: Yeah, that's why.

Andrew Brown: You know, if you.

Matthew: Well, and that in the tensor Because like right?

Andrew Brown: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Matthew: Because like I having touched You're, if I remember correctly, segment of of memory over
the There's no bounds checking on there wasn't last time I looked

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Matthew: model and it's like. And like and for sure, I ran with like NVIDIA Triton server. Because
I was like it. There was no sanitation. There's no way to check like the model that I knew was
being pass in something that's just attention, it's not expected. You get like these crazy errors

Andrew Brown: Yeah, yeah, yeah.

Matthew: Like that's.

Andrew Brown: Well, I think some of that is world, right? With wit, now every input that know the
bounds, right? So we have a little bit more

Matthew: Yeah, but I I mean like.

Andrew Brown: I don't know. There there might be. Need to be more checking on the we're passing to
the model

Matthew: That's what I'm referring to.

Andrew Brown: yeah.

Matthew: Like, that's what caused the

Andrew Brown: We can do it right, like the Like when we get the when we get hey, we know we know
the bounds model what it expects and see if

Matthew: OK. Yeah. Well, for for models that I think Pie Torch does, but I

Andrew Brown: Yeah, I guess that's true.

Matthew: don't. If all of them have like

Andrew Brown: Mm hmm mm hmm.

Matthew: give me the tensor dibs that you

Andrew Brown: Mm hmm. I wonder if ONNX does. We should

Matthew: Like I would expect them all to

Andrew Brown: Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that's a That that's probably something want. You want that
check as as close

Matthew: Yeah, yeah. And you want it in the host side

Andrew Brown: Yep, Yep. But like, as soon as that tensor check it and if it's not right, error
instead of going all the And who knows what'll happen

Matthew: Yeah, yeah, I we, I think we I saw that there was a proposal and actually that looked
good But like we're not gonna be compute on the So that it like, it's gonna

Andrew Brown: Yeah.

Matthew: Sweet man.

Andrew Brown: There's, you know, Raul kinda we we have suggested maybe a separate interface for
LLMs, but still you just get the graph and graph resource.

Matthew: Got it. Makes sense? Alright, thank you.

Andrew Brown: Back.

Matthew: I'll go work on that and I'll updates.

Andrew Brown: Sounds good, man.

Matthew: OK. Catch you later. Bye.

