# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** November 4, 2025  
**Time:** 11:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Till Schneidereit  
Bailey Hayes  
Oscar Spencer  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon. Note there were no TSC meetings on October 14, 21, or 28 due to member travel and availablity.  Business was conducted online via email and Zulip, with any actions or future agenda issues noted here along with items from the November 4 meeting.  

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics. Members discussed the continuing email conversations with WAMR project maintainers regarding necessary improvements to security practices and project operations, with general agreement among all involved that another dedicated working meeting was needed.

**Action:** David will work with TSC members and WAMR project maintainers to schedule another working meeting.

### Topic #2
Till highlighted continuing planning discussions related to an Alliance organized project status and roadmap planning meeting ("Plumbers Summit") being considered for the first quarter of 2026. 

### Topic #3
TSC members commented on the most recent vendor proposal for an extension to the compliance test development project. Members agreed the revised scope sufficiently met Alliance needs that the vendor could be asked to draft an amendment to the existing Statement of Work (SOW) for more formal review by the TSC and eventual consideration by the Alliance board.

**Action:** David will request a proposed SOW amendment from the vendor.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 12:06pm PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting