# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** December 9, 2025  
**Time:** 11:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Till Schneidereit  
Bailey Hayes  
Oscar Spencer  
Andrew Brown  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon. Members agreed to shift the time of this meeting to 10:00am US Pacific Time going forward to better accommodate current schedules and availability.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics. Till provided an update on LegitGo support for WASI. Andrew proposed and the TSC agreed to the upstreaming of install-wasi-sdk.

### Topic #2
David provided an election update. The call for nominations yielded precisely as many confirmed nominees as there were open seats to be filled, so the BA board approved those nominees for the open seats without requiring an election. Newly selected Directors will begin their term at the first 2026 board meeting on January 8.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 12:02pm PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting