# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** December 16, 2025  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Till Schneidereit  
Bailey Hayes  
Oscar Spencer  
Andrew Brown  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon. This was the first meeting at the new time of 10:00am US Pacific.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics. Work and project support efforts continue with WAMR project maintainers though ongoing email conversation and document reviews.   

### Topic #2
Bailey highlighted a new GitHub workflow under development to enable publishing to the Open VSX registry, summarizing issues currently forestalling successful deployment and pointing members at a Zulip discussion being used to collectively troubleshoot the situation.

### Topic #3
TSC members shared their availability during the upcoming end-of-year holiday season. The December 23 and 30 TSC meetings were canceled with members agreeing to conduct ongoing business via email and Zulip until the next meeting on January 6, 2026.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 10:48am PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting