# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** January 14, 2025  
**Time:** 11:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Bailey Hayes  
Andrew Brown  
Oscar Spencer  
Nick Fitzgerald  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.  As an operational note, the weekly TSC meeting has been moved to Tuesday 11:00am US Pacific time.

### Topic #1
This meeting provided the first opportunity to seat Bailey, Oscar and Andrew as the TSC Elected Delegates chosen by Bytecode Alliance Recognized Contributors in the December 2024 election. The group spent time reviewing overall TSC operations, answering questions from the new members, discussing in-flight work that the new TSC needs to carry forward, and getting guidance from Nick as outgoing TSC Chair.

### Topic #2
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, and ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including review of the Wasmtime Core Project proposal.

### Topic #3
Among old business carried forward, Bailey reintroduced her proposal for the Alliance to participate in the OpenSSF Foundation and offered to draft a statement of scope for that relationship to be reviewed offline by the TSC.

### Topic #4
New TSC business for 2025 includes selecting a TSC Chair as well as a TSC Director to represent it on the Alliance Board. After discussion the group decided to revisit these topics at next week's TSC meeting, allowing members time to decide if they wanted to express interest in either or both of those roles and taking advantage of there being another TSC meeting before the next Alliance Board meeting (on January 23).


### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 12:04pm PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary of the meeting