# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** November 18, 2025  
**Time:** 11:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Till Schneidereit  
Bailey Hayes  
Oscar Spencer  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon. Note the TSC did not meet on November 11 due to member travel and availablity.  Business was conducted online via email and Zulip, with any actions or future agenda issues noted here along with items from the November 18 meeting.  

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics. Members discussed the meeting held earlier today between the TSC and WAMR project maintainers as a working session in support of ongoing enhancements to project security operations and efforts. Good progress in several areas were highlighted and a number of actions items identified to be followed up on my TSC members.

**Action:** David will work with TSC members and WAMR project maintainers to generate meeting minutes that can be shared publicly.

### Topic #2
David provided a recap of the most recent Bytecode Alliance board meeting. A revised Statement of Work has been received for continued WASI compliance test development and is being reviewed for approval by the board. If approved the project would begin immediately in order to allow soonest possible completion.

### Topic #3
Although next week is a major holiday in the US (Thanksgiving), TSC members confirmed their availability for the regularly scheduled TSC meeting on November 25.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 12:05pm PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting