# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** October 7, 2025  
**Time:** 11:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Till Schneidereit  
Bailey Hayes  
Oscar Spencer  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.  

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics. 

### Topic #2
Till confirmed that arrangements are complete for the roadmap and planning working session TSC will host prior to the in-person meeting of the W3C WebAssembly Community Group in Munich. Attendees have been confirmed, an agenda developed, and the meeting location finalized. 

### Topic #3
Discussion of an extension to the nearly-completed compliance test development project are underway via email but proceeding slowly. Preliminary conversations with board members shows good support for considering an extension, pending an endorsement and proposed SOW from the TSC.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 12:00pm PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting