# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** November 25, 2025  
**Time:** 11:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Till Schneidereit  
Bailey Hayes  
Oscar Spencer  
Andrew Brown  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon. 

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics. Draft minutes from the November 18 meeting with WAMR maintainers are being reviewed and should be published on Friday, which will include a recap of action items. Bailey led discussion regarding adding repositories that are related to a single hosted project. 

### Topic #2
David provided an election update. The call for nominations from Recognized Contributors continues through December 1st, with confirmed nominees to be announced on December 5th so that voting may begin.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 12:03pm PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting