# Oct 08 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Kate Goldenring
* Mikhail Katychev
* Danny Macovei
* Victor Adossi
* Tim Chevalier

## Notes

* Victor asking for reviews on rust language guide document revamp: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/310#issuecomment-3371913407. Original intent was to remove cargo-component but ended up being a restructuring. Is pretty much ready to merge.
* Mikhail: should we start documenting cargo-component deprecation
* Kate: Maybe wait for an announcement from the maintainers / TSC
* Kate: Happy to take on this issue: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/issues/318#issuecomment-3301749471. Also a discussion on a section in the guide about using host bindings
* Victor: We already have some about host bindings in the Rust guide. I think we can find a place
* Kate: Question whether using host bindings should be its own section or its own guide
* Victor: "Using WIT resources" we walk people how to use a host component. In the past this was in Rust. In the new one it is in its own section

BA blogs:

* Kate: Should we push more blogs out through the BA?
* Mikhail: My company has been using guest components for telemetry
* Kate: BA site has a news tab but not a blog tab
* Victor: Do you see the blog posts as having runnable examples? Or diagram content?
* Kate: Both
* Mikhail: Should the blog post be educational and hands on or more "draw the rest of the owl"
* Victor: I think it is a good idea, I'd love a way for the community to submit what they want to see. Driven by user frustration of what to do a blog on. Would be great to gather the list of things we want to write about
* Kate: This would be good for SIG docs to gather in general. We could also pass the Zulip archive into the LLM: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/zulip-archive
* Victor: Created an issue and pinned it
* Kate: Wasmcon could be a place for feedback

Stats from David Bryant

* Rust is the number one language guide
* Moonbit is the number two
  * Cleary their community needed a space for these docs
* WIT.md is high -- we reference that from a lot of places
* We should reference more of the docs from other places

