# Jun 18 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Victor Adossi
* Kate Goldenring
* Eric Gregory
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

* Danny raised discussion of renaming and restructuring Component Book Chapter 6 now that it has been substantively altered
* Kate proposes having discussion in PR or issue to facilitate alignment with collaborators not in the synchronous meeting

## Action Items

* [ ] Danny will create an issue on the chapter name question
