# Dec 03 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
2. Announcements
3. Other agenda items

## Attendees

* Kate Goldenring
* Mikhail Katychev
* Danny Macovei
* Victor Adossi
* Eric Gregory

## Notes

1. Canceling meetings with no agenda

* Kate: Collect agenda items 24 hours before the meeting in Zulip and cancel meeting if there are no items
* All: sounds good

1. Issue: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/issues/329#issuecomment-3570502656

* Proposal: Simplify current JS docs by using the loaders
* Victor: My take on that part of the component book is that we want simple but descriptive examples, showing the internals so people learn how to use the toolchain.
* Action: Victor to move the issue to JCO

1. Yosh's awesome-wasm-components repo https://github.com/yoshuawuyts/awesome-wasm-components

* Mikhail: Could we just add this as another page
* Kate: Maybe we create issues to add pages for what we are missing: bindings generators, hosts lists, compatible registries, etc, and compare our definition of components against his
* Victor: Languages could go on languages page. We go deep in each language. Concerned about replacing content with this.
* Kate: Definitely not replacing, just supplementing. We could start the languages guide with list of bindings generators -- queues peoeple to know what is in their language ecosystem.
* Victor: the hosts may be too overwhelming. We are reference implementation and a guide, so a hard balance. We can put the table into the banner page of each section.
* Kate: I can work with Yosh on integrating some of this content as header info for sections
* Kate: create an issue about Hosts page

1. Add a language support matrix to WASI.dev

* Kate: Put up lang support table in WASI.dev. Fermyon has one that we could work off of https://developer.fermyon.com/wasm-languages/webassembly-language-support
* Kate to make issue; Eric to implement

## Action Items

* [ ] Kate: create an issue about Hosts page
* [ ] Kate: Work with Yosh on integrating some of this content as header info for sections
* [ ] Kate: create issue to add language guide to WASI.dev
* [ ] Eric: Take on implementation of above todo
* [ ] Victor: Move JS loaders [issue](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/issues/329#issuecomment-3570502656) to JCO
* [ ] Kate/Danny: Set up agenda collection in Zulip 24 hours before next meeting
* [ ] Kate: Create meeting notes instances for 2026
