# Jan 29 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Kate Goldenring
* Eric Gregory
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

* TSC is putting together a list of projects that are part of BCA. This has been merged -- we could update the site based on that. It's in the governance repo: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/governance/tree/main/projects
    - Eric and Danny agree that this would be a good task for SIG Docs to take on.
    - Eric will work on it.

* Goals before WASI IO
    - Should wasi.dev speak to WASI P3, perhaps in a roadmap?
    - Joel and Luke can speak to this. We also have existing slides: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Is0yTZ13xuw5UjbbUH_h33HVqVEjDV3XDzQFWmUHolg/edit#slide=id.p
    - We can create a PR with a P3 roadmap and tag Joel and Luke.
    - Eric will work on this.

## Action Items

* [ ] Kate working on tutorial for OCI and wkg
* [ ] Eric will work on updating BCA site with projects
* [ ] Eric will work on adding P3 to wasi.dev
