# Aug 27 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. Pull request from creator of Moon Bit to add it as one of the languages in the examples https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/307
    2. Archiving cargo-component: https://bytecodealliance.zulipchat.com/#narrow/channel/407292-cargo-component/topic/On.20archiving.20cargo-component
    3. WASI timeline needs to be updated and other goals

## Attendees

* Eric Gregory
* Kate Goldenring
* Mikhail Katychev
* Danny Macovei
* Victor Adossi

## Notes

* Moon Bit
  * Mikhail: I contribute to Linguist, to contribute a language, you have to submit in the PR all the repos with a syntax stem from the language. If the language is popular enough, it is good to discuss maintaining. Otherwise, the maintenance of burden of maintaining is too large
  * Victor: I am hesitant to make it popularity based. It is a bit of a chicken and egg thing -- never popular if never listed. Maybe we could include a page for "Other Languages" and link out. We also want to encourage more people to support it.
  * Mikhail: That seems reasonable to me
  * Kate: Where is the line? Would Grain be "Other Languages". We should create common law around which languages we would bring in.
  * Victor: Grain would be the category of new languages which would be "Other Languages"
  * Kate: Maybe we can define all the top level languages we want to support and say if you are not on that list, you go on the "Other Languages" page
  * Danny: One thing about the smaller languages, if the language is out of date, consequences are not as high
  * Victor: Commented on the issue with our consensus to use a new page for other languages
  * Kate: Are there other top languages we want to support
  * Victor: Venn diagram of languages that compile to Wasm and use the component model is small
  * Danny: I have explored adding component model support to Zig
* Archiving cargo-component
  * Kate: TSC is considering archiving it we should update the docs
  * Danny: Pat said wit-bindgen should depend on wkg
  * Kate: Would be great to create
  * TODO
    * notice to not use cargo-component
    * update our examples
    * update the rust guide
  * Mikhail: Happy to help
  * Victor: I can update the Rust guide and rip out Cargo component
  * Kate: App examples too?
  * Victor: Yes, I can take that on
  * Kate: We should also update the things we link out to: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/running-components/wasmtime.html?highlight=middleware#running-http-components-with-wasmtime
    * auth middleware component
    * wasmtime serve
  * Kate: Bytecode alliance blogs that use cargo component that we should update?
  * Mikhail: I can look at that
  * Kate: Looks like there is only one BA blog that references cargo-component: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/bytecodealliance.org/blob/3750c2af172524d27629091bcabaea3ced7bfa92/_posts/2024-02-19-jco-1.0.md?plain=1#L65
* WASI
  * Eric: timeline update is in progress -- need to coordinate with Yosh and Bailey

## Action Items

* [ ] Kate: Create other languages page
* [ ] Mikhail: Start Zulip thread to ask for areas where documentation needs to be updated
* [ ] Victor: Update cargo component docs: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/issues/252
