# Apr 09 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Victor Adossi
* Kate Goldenring
* Eric Gregory
* Mikhail Katychev
* Danny Macovei
* Timo Stark

## Notes

### Discussion on component docs examples

Danny: Mikhail found some inconsistencies in the Rust docs and had some general feedback on how to make it easier to follow.

Mikhail: I started going through the component docs back in October, and I was personally a little confused. I put up a PR before I went to wasm.io -- Victor had some good feedback that I haven't addressed yet. One of my thoughts was that the more hands-on examples we have, the better the docs will be for it. It would help to have more examples and zero assumptions about a reader's understanding of WebAssembly. For example, in the calculator example, it uses a WIT signature that takes in a string to evaluate and parse, but the WIT looks different. 

Victor: I think the idea was that adder would be a simple component and the calculator was supposed to be the composition. The beginning is creating the adder from unsigned integers and then compose that into more complex functionality. So what I'm hearing is the middle part needs to be easier to do and easier to grok. 

Mikhail: I'm still clueless about WIT and WebAssembly, but for me a lot of learning comes from hands-on experience, and in a lot of these examples I don't know what to do with my hands, I don't know what to type.

Kate: I think with the calculator example, it takes the style of being language-agnostic, assuming you've gone through the initial language guides, so it isn't as walkthroughy because we have the polyglot ecosystem issue. What I'm hearing here is we might want the tutorial to have a separate page for every language as well.

Mikhail: I think it's more about pandering to other learning styles. The "by example" style is really helpful. 

Kate: Yeah, agreed, we've talked a lot about how useful that style can be. 

Victor: Spelling out the steps and sequence of steps more clearly might be helpful.

Danny: It could make sense to have a section on ways to structure your WIT if you have the intention to compose as a part of all this. Different tools create the WIT in different ways. 

Victor: I think having to clone the docs repo and go into a specific folder is probably not ideal, so that's a separate issue we probably want to address. Based on what Danny said, we might get use out of a WIT section, and we should probably be showing people a WIT-first workflow, because it's the most language-agnostic part. You generally think of the interface first when you write a component -- you think about what it should do, write WIT, pull down WIT dependency packages, write your binding, and then write component. We might benefit from having a flow that introduces the interface, introduces the tooling/file structure, and then as the user moves to the next section, then we introduce how to implement the WIT world in a given language.

Kate: I like WIT being the blueprint and the starting point, and now that there are some docs on it (with new wkg docs), we could even start people in a compose mindset using pre-built components, composing *first* before thinking about building in specific languages.

Danny: In our current example, we're already making a lot of assumptions about where your WIT is and how you're relating to it -- it might be in a registry instead, for example. So yeah, I think a WIT section makes a lot of sense.

Victor: What I see is write a very simple WIT, run a simple wkg command, and then build a very simple component/binding in your language of choice. 

Eric: I agree, this seems like the simplest and most accessible onboarding process.

## Action Items

* [ ] TODO
