# May 07 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Victor Adossi
* Eric Gregory
* Mikhail Katychev
* Danny Macovei
* Kate Goldenring

## Notes

Eric: Calendar added to BA site

Kate: Pat recommended we move away from cargo-component. Prompted by this issue https://github.com/bytecodealliance/cargo-component/issues/399

Victor: I am hesitant to move away from cargo component. I think more edge cases will be exposed if we use all the tools that cargo component lets us paper over. Ideally, we can fix cargo component. Everyone is using cargo component 

Danny: Related, I was going to mention something i’ve noticed in the book. We don’t use the world flag. When you have transitive WIT packages. You also have to use `wkg` too

Kate: Could you try using that flag to see if it is fixed? We could additively add wit-bindgen docs

Victor: Finding the right adapter for wit-bindgen can be a headache. Usability lands on the side of having a catch all project. If the trend is phasing out cargo-component, that is a large discussion that needs to happen.

Danny: it is nice that there is a wkg cli but it is nice that i don’t have to use it myself in cargo-component. I like things being simple for users

Mikhail: Can we include wkg and wit-bindgen in cargo-component as a shim?

Danny: I think of that being cargo-component today

Mikhail: Are we using the wasm32-wasip2 target with cargo-component

Danny: I think it is using the adapter module

Victor: you can control the Rust target with cargo-component

Danny: there are not a lot of changes happening in cargo-component all the time. Using wit-bindgen instead is a trend rather than a decision. If you are using wits that reference each other transitively its nice that cargo-component handles that

Kate: I am hearing that we should keep cargo-component in the docs

Danny: wkg was meant to be a library used by other toolchains — less so a standalone cli

Victor: I want the decision to come from the author of cargo-component and it should be archived. I don’t think we should do anything until the line is “no more cargo-component”

Danny: I find cargo-component very convenient. I like the DX

Kate: We really like cargo-component

Mikhail: We should see what the maintainers say

Moved on to issue triage

## Action Items

* [ ] TODO
