# Jan 15 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. Update on BA.org - Timo

## Attendees

* Kate Goldenring
* Eric Gregory
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

* BA Site Update
  * Timo: Readme says what it is, what the build env is, how to install Jekyll and deps, and running locally. Also, working on Docker setup. If run into issues, just delete the lockfile. The Dockerfile will help us have a very specific build system.
  * Timo: What to get it working with the current Gemfile but if not then we could do some version bump
  * Timo: Code of conduct is from Wasmtime repo. Looking for a contribution guide, but the WAsmtime one is only a few lines. Mainly trying to copy what is available to the BA.org repo. Should be able to finish this today.
* Look at past action items
* Update from registries to enable quickstart where we can pull in component
  * Danny: Registries are using slow
  * Timo: Is OCI supported? Could we just use OCI? Showcase how to consume prebuilt packages. Use wa.dev to see how the package is structured.
  * Danny: It depends what all is needed in order to document something. I think WAC is one of the best way to compose things and it may still have a hard dep on warg. wkg can use oci and warg. Intent is for it to only support OCI. Not a priority to make it only work in OCI. WA.dev is currently using warg not OCI. Don't see things changing before Wasm IO.
  * Kate: So we could have a tutorial that uses wkg with OCI?
  * Danny: Yeah, just can't then use wac. I hope that wargs presence being supported doesn't have a poor impact
  * Kate: I'll work on an example
* Documentation Project Board Check In
  * Timo: For more docs on resources - I would like to create a more feature rich application that does a thing
  * Kate: Only concern is maintainability but we can always make it a blog

## Action Items

* [x] Create issue on BA site repo to add a page for docs references
* [x] Create issue on BA site repo to describe project maturity levels - exists [here](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/governance/blob/main/TSC/core-and-hosted-projects.md)
* [ ] Create issue to discuss repo for all projects to use as a source to pull in for projects page
* [ ] Create issue on BA site to rename news to blog 
* [ ] Update README and add CONTRIBUTION.md in BA.org repo about adding a blog and testing locally - Timo
* [ ] Write tutorial that uses wkg and OCI - Kate
