# Jul 16 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Victor Adossi
* Tim Chevalier
* Eric Gregory
* Mikhail Katychev
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

### Discussion on component docs PRs

* Tim put in a PR splitting out the “language-agnostic tooling” section into its own page: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/282
    * Victor made some suggestions in the PR, and the group was all good with both the PR and the suggestions.
* Danny refactored this PR: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/267
* Victor suggests a new section on registries and distribution is appropriate
* Victor: What do you think about splitting about composing and distributing components?
    * Eric and Mikhail agree that the two topics are distinct and don’t belong together
* Victor: We’ll probably want to nest topics under both composition and distribution.
* Mikhail: mdbook has technical limitations on how deeply it can nest — if we wanted to have subcategories of subcategories, we can’t do that right now, which is a little frustrating.
* Danny: I’m fine either way, but I’d be worried about distributing being a little lean. But if there’s more to it than publishing, that’d make sense to me. There are two user stories I’m thinking about: for someone going through the book fully, are registries handled early? For the other use case, if I just have a particular language I’m focused on, do I have to go through the general topics? Is that too much friction?

### Update from Mikhail

* Mikhail progressing on syntax highlighting in mdbook

### Update on WASI.dev

* Per discussion several meetings ago, Eric put in a PR consolidating patch release version information to the Interfaces page and adding details on those releases.

## Action Items

* [ ] TODO
