# May 21 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Victor Adossi
* Kate Goldenring
* Eric Gregory
* Mikhail Katychev
* Pete LeVasseur
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

* Pete LeVasseur from Woven by Toyota joined the meeting for the first time. Woven by Toyota has started looking at using WebAssembly in automotives and Pete is working on using a proposal for using Wasm best practices for embedded use-cases; he sees this as an opportunity to participate in the wider community.
* This best practice guide could live in multiple places, including the component docs.
* This guide would start with a broader scope: "embedded" rather than more narrowly "embedded in automotive," though many prospective contributors are involved in automotive.

* Victor proposes changing how we merge on the component-docs repo.
* Proposal: Only squash commits, and disabling rebase + FF for consistency. Allow "merge when complete" so maintainers can click to merge automatically once approvals + CI finishes.
  - Mikhail agrees.
  - Kate tends to prefer not squashing, but doesn't hold a strong opinion.
  - Pete notes that Safety-Critical Rust Consortium uses squash commits

* **WASI.dev**: For clarity, we should move/add 0.2.x release information and version history to the "Interfaces" page, adjusting the first section to focus on the general WASI release cadence. Eric will work on this.

* **Component docs**: Danny proposes moving config section to just before where we start telling people how to create components, in order to have a consistent config for docs tutorializing and get the user configured smoothly.
   - Victor wonders whether wkg is quite up to this role, and whether we want to make using it the first thing a user does, rather than creating/using a WIT file.
   - Kate: If we're going to start with them using wkg, we'd have to update all the language guides to use it. I'm fine with that approach. We could also have a section on "Accessing example WITs" and document both using wkg and grabbing it manually. Forcing folks to use wkg is fine with me, but it's another step.
   - Victor: While I hesitate about adding another step, maybe it makes sense to put wkg early simply to let people know that it exists. Since the vast majority of people are going to be pulling WITs, and this would put more pressure on the tool to be good, maybe this is the right approach.
   - We can get rid of sections 6.1 and 6.3 (the latter of which is out of date).

## Action Items

* [ ] Pete will gather the folks he is talking with and open an issue in [component-docs](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs) for the embedded best practice guide.
* [ ] Eric will update the "Roadmap" and "Interfaces" pages of WASI.dev.
* [ ] Danny will remove Component docs sections 6.1 and 6.3 and figure out what to do about 6
