# Jul 30 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Victor Adossi
* Tim Chevalier
* Eric Gregory
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

Tim put in a PR to component-docs adding a ‘WIT by Example’ section that prompted discussion in the PR

Danny: We had added an example that fetched WIT from GHCR and reverted it. There were issues, but I think we were able to fix them and I don’t think we unreverted the plan. This could bear on a prospective WIT by Example section.

Victor: It looks like it was a cargo component issue. 

Danny: Yeah, I think it was a matter of documenting how to configure cargo component properly to make it work. 

We should reconsider the configuration section and where it belongs. Once we do that and update the tutorials to be able to fetch things from the registry, we should also be able to do composition from the registry. This will require some work to get WAC to leverage wasm-pkg-tools. Even regardless of whether this is the case, some of these examples could fetch WIT from a registry. 

Victor: On the PR, process-wise, new pages or new sections generally seem like they should be discussed in an Issue, so people async can participate, and also forewarn before a large diff drops. That’s worth calling out as something to do in the future.

Looking at the PR, I agree a simpler contract is probably nicer. With the addition of a section with example WIT, I think this PR is a good addition. It hits a lot of patterns that people would likely see with WIT

Side issue: We don’t have any conventions or formatting rules for our Markdown. Victor has an Issue open on this: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/issues/292

Victor: I think filesystem and clocks are the right intuitions for examples, but I think we want a simpler version. I don’t want to over-index on calculator, but I agree that it doesn’t have enough pieces to build out a full example on.

Danny: I think people don’t walk away from examples with clarity on composition right now, so I’m wondering if this is an opportunity to do that.

Victor: Should we break out section 8 and make it more step by step?

Danny: Right now, we’re not describing how to use a remote WIT package to scaffold out a new library, and that feels like Step 1. 

Victor: Maybe in the “Creating Components” section they write the world. I want people to know they don’t have to have a registry set up. You can start from just text files. 

## Action Items

* [ ] TODO
