# Oct 22 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Kate Goldenring
* Mikhail Katychev
* Victor Adossi
* Tim Chevalier

## Notes
* Victor asking for comments on [#310][310]
* Mikhail: I'm comfortable merging PR as-is but should not get the final say
* Kate: should running components be removed?
* Victor: I don't think we should get rid of the wasm time section
* Kate: I think Ivan should be reached out to respond to his comments
* Mikhail: have we introduced any new sections?
* Victor: yes: "other languages", "importing components", and "using wit resources"
* Kate: we can move some of the suggestions into follow-up issues, I was waiting on addressing the alliteration of my latest comments

BA blog post:
* Eric: Bailey reached about about writing a blog post introducing the component docs
* Kate: I'm happy to help in co-authoring the blog post

## Action Items

* [ ] Create follow-up tickets for [#310][310]

[310]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/310#issuecomment-3371913407
