# Jun 04 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Victor Adossi
* Kate Goldenring
* Mikhail Katychev
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

* Mikhail: last thing i worked on was syntax highlighting for component docs. Why tree sitter? Testable and performable and cross-platform. What would the appetite be to host a tree sitter grammar under the BA org. I've made edits to the existing one but haven't gotten traction from the maintainer: https://github.com/liamwh/tree-sitter-wit/pulls
* Victor: The maintainer may be overwhelmed. There are a lot of changes.
* Kate: Maybe start with an issue to agree on approach with the maintainer rather than going into pr right away
* Mikhail: Would be great to also have Markdown updated. mdbook sitter will do parsing and lexing which will convert it with the JS library (highlight-js) that will provide the css names.
* Victor: is tree-sitter wit upstream of vscode-wit?
* Mikhail: no they are completely different
* Victor: Progress is being made with vscode-wit https://github.com/bytecodealliance/vscode-wit (https://github.com/github-linguist/linguist)
* Mikhail: there is not interoperability between mdbook and textmate (vscode wit solution)
* Reviewed previous meeting TODOs
* Mikhail: Could we add tests for examples
* Kate + Victor: for what we have in tree right now sounds good.

## Action Items

* [ ] Eric will update the "Roadmap" and "Interfaces" pages of WASI.dev.
* [ ] Danny will remove Component docs sections 6.1 and 6.3 and figure out what to do about 6
* [ ] Kate to push updated components (that have expected WIT)
