# Sep 24 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Victor Adossi
* Eric Gregory
* Danny Macovei

## Notes

### Component docs - where to deal with interface imports and usage?

* Danny: Since Rust tutorial is most robust, it should also be the most frictionless.
* Victor: It’s hard to know where the essential stuff stops, when you’re doing extra credit.
* Danny: Why are you opposed to having a Section 7 on advanced component development? What we could do is have a Section 7 with subsections that we think are extra credit
* Victor: Yeah, this is probably the expedient option, but there are also two advanced sections right now as I see it. Pulling an interface and using it is a different thing than adding host support — most devs aren’t going to be building the host and the component, at least in the future. Theoretically, they shouldn’t worry about the host, so host bindings become a Section 8. 
* General agreement that we’ll want to split it out into two chapters rather than one
* Victor: Takeaway I’m hearing is general alignment on splitting out advanced functionality, but perhaps we should combine all that separate stuff into one section. Generally I think they should be split out into separate sections that say what they do, but what I’m hearing is you think they can/should be grouped at least in first, and then perhaps separated out in stages.
  - Then we should look into whether we can have drop-downs for sub-sections and sub-sub-sections in mdbook.
  - Can perhaps use html fold for this

## Action Items

* [ ] TODO
