# Jul 02 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Danny Macovei
* Mikhail Katychev
* Eric Gregory
* Victor Adossi

## Notes

- Mikhail: Filed vscode-wit issues and this went well
  - Got help from GordonSmith
- Mikhail: Talked to Oscar, and the TSC is interested in hosting vscode-wit
- Danny: Maintainers?
  - Mikhail: Company is now part of the BCA, and Jeremy will be one of the maintainers
- Danny: Next steps?
  - Mikhail: Oscar is going to provide feedback
    - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/governance/pull/129
- Victor: Some PRs are waiting (we can't merge until someone with write to approve)
  - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/272
  - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/271
  - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/270
  - Mikhail: I'm happy to help review
- Danny: Talked to Ivan to work out some the PRs
  - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/268
  - https://github.com/bytecodealliance/component-docs/pull/267
  - Going to reformulate the PRs and try to group more of them into one
- Victor: We might also want to add a link to the YouTube meetings playlist for people who want to watch

## Action Items
