# Apr 23 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Victor Adossi
* Eric Gregory
* Mikhail Katychev
* Danny Macovei
* Kate Goldenring

## Notes

* Eric gives updates on BA site changes
  * PR to add projects file is ready to merge https://github.com/bytecodealliance/bytecodealliance.org/pull/123
  * Timo's changes will make it easier for anyone to run the BA site locally. Gets rid of the friction of Jeckyl errors. This then makes easier contribution of blogs
  * Other BA site changes
    * Document how to add a blog
    * Timo has a contribution guide that we can add the blog docs to
* Kate continuing to look at getting docs examples hosted
* Danny brings up an issue that a docs user had with includes. Should probably add that to the book. Maybe we should improve this section https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#including-other-worlds
  * Danny: WIT grammar seems to be tackled separately than what it means to author a component
  * Danny: I want to play around with something that could be in authoring components vs WIT
  * Victor: it would be great to ask that person how they got there -- how they decided to add `include`. 
  * Danny: They wanted WASI HTTP types so they included WASI HTTP.
  * Danny: Even without GHCR, they are referencing local file paths in their dependencies. Should be able to configure wkg for fetch deps. So maybe need an issue to replace file path in local examples. Maybe we update the hello-wasi-http example https://github.com/sunfishcode/hello-wasi-http/blob/main/Cargo.toml
  * Victor: should we issue warnings if people use file paths
  * Danny: I agree. File paths sometimes insinuate that these are editable -- like editing your node modules
  * Kate: I think file paths are helpful if you are developing a custom world.
  * Danny: True. I've seen people get tripped up on file paths


## Action Items

* [ ] Eric to bump Timo to PR in his PR https://github.com/tippexs/bytecodealliance.org/tree/gh-pages
* [ ] Eric to add blog contribution guide https://github.com/tippexs/bytecodealliance.org/tree/gh-pages
* [ ] Kate to push calculator components to GHCR
* [ ] Danny to reach out to Dan to update wasi http example to use wkg
* [ ] Kate to PR in adding Victor as maintainer
