# Feb 26 SIG-Documentation Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
2. Announcements
3. Other agenda items
    1. Status updates

## Attendees

* Timmy Silesmo
* Timo Stark
* Eric Gregory

## Notes

* Eric: Put in PRs to WASI.dev with roadmap
* Eric: PR into BytecodeAlliance.org to revamp project page. Was discussed more in TSC meeting yesterday. Aiming to create a project data file with metadata so that the Jeckyl site structure can present it. Discussion around having a single source of truth -- there is a list in the governance repo. In the future may create a yaml listing in the gov repo and pipe it into the website repo.
* Timo: do you know open the BA is to versions for dependencies? Could I bump versions in PRs?
* Eric: not aware of an institutional position but i would bump the versions
* Timo: Okay, I will start it locally to test and then I'll create the PR. Eric, could I share the link to my repo first.
* Eric: Happy to help
* Kate: Remind me of the changes -- mainly around contributor experience, right?
* Timo: Readme of how to install everything locally
* Timmy: Noticed that the charter has broken link: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/governance/blob/main/SIGs/SIG-documentation/proposal.md
* Timmy: I think we could add more to c# experience to go beyond default AOT compiled experience. Could be updated to match what we are doing in that SIG. 
* Kate: Before Wasm IO would be great to check in with each language SIG to make sure each language guide in component book is updated
* Kate: Should also check in with SIG registries about state of registries
* Timmy: new C# experience also has registries integration
* Timo: I think general and language specific
* Timmy: I agree. You can technically create components without a language as well.
* Kate: Who can we get to update the C guide? Not a clear owner right now?
* Timo: My former Nginx colleague Andrew Clayton may be willing
* Kate: I'll create issues for each language guide to make sure it is up to date
* Kate: What about BA site?
* Eric: Would like to push on the projects effort.

## Action Items

* [ ] Kate: Add registries section to Rust guide issue
* [ ] Kate: Create issue to add registries section to C# guide issue
* [ ] Timmy: Make sure C# guide gets updated before Wasm IO
