# Jan 22, 2025 | [JavaScript subgroup (BA Guest Languages SIG)](https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=NmQ0NzY0cW9hYXFsc3FiaW41YjBxOGpyc21fMjAyNDA4MDdUMTcwMDAwWiBjYWx2aW5AamFmbGFicy5jb20)

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Note: meeting notes linked in the invite.
    1. Please help add your name to the meeting notes.
    1. Please help take notes.
    1. Thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

| Attendee          |
|-------------------|
| Calvin Preweitt   |
| Guy Bedford       |
| Saul Cabrera      |
| Till Schneidereit |
| Tomasz Andrzejak  |
| Victor Adossi     |
| Yoshua Wuyts      |

## Notes

### StarlingMonkey

* Tomasz: Merged a few things last week, `createObjectUrl`, `FormData` support, pending PR for adding streaming encoder for `FormData` for use w/ `Request`
* Next is the `Response` side of the `FormData` is there some code we could re-use?
  * Tomasz: In Gecko there’s a simple parser that could be reused?
* Tomasz: Also did some experimentation with zealing after unblock from Till, still tweaking knobs
  * Till: If you run into any issues you might want to treat them as vulnerabilities rather than just opening an issue – we haven’t done any disclosures for StarlingMonkey yet, so we’d need to figure out a process.
  * Consider sharing reproduction steps in a private fork if you find anything that seems like a vulnerability?
  * Guy: We have done a couple fo CVEs at Fastly for these kinds of issues – Trevor did those in the past via GitHub CVE system which worked well
    * Till: Would definitely do similarly, but we need to percolate them through StarlingMonkey \> ComponentizeJS \> Jco
  * Guy: A private channel for this on Zulip?
* Tomasz: Unit tests for testing some of the more byte moving stuff? How about gtest (Gecko uses this)?
  * Till: Should be possible to do this in native code, but integration of the build system for a native StarlingMonkey build would be likely painful
  * Tomasz: Should be possible to compile the unit tests to wasm
  * Till: Yup, that’s the idea of what to do *instead* of the native build
* Till: All the recent changes made by Tomasz over the last few months have been released to ComponentizeJS, thanks Guy
  * WASI 0.2.3 bindings
  * We now have support for `Blob`, `FormData`, `File`, form handling improvements
  * WPT coverage has also improved
  * Guy: This has also unblocked customers and teams on the Fastly side as well
  * Till: Karthik also unblocked
* Till: regarding GC Zeal
  * Context: StarlingMonkey has support for configuring GC – can be tweaked/made more costly
  * It wasn’t possible to run any GC after wizening before, but that was recently fixed – now we can actually GC
  * The issue was that we had a timestamp baked into the wizer snapshot that was relative to process snapshot during build – so if a GC happened before we’d end up with a negative offset for the monotonic clock
    * Fixed this by overriding the clock in `libc` – used a weak symbol to override w/ the WASI import, and then after wizening (at runtime), add the offset
    * This should probably be part of the Wizer include header somehow
* Till: Fixed name section w/ debug builds
  * Debug info was present, but with no name section, this was a `cmake` bug but is now fixed
  * Till: Have you tested this by any chance Guy?
    * Guy: Not yet
    * Till: Well the name section is definitely there, but whether the backtraces are there
* Till: Looked into different build optimizations
  * `wasm-opt` (in the context of fixing the name section) – we don’t seem to be doing any LTO, so we probably have a lot of overhead interacting with StarlingMonkey APIs – we’re probably not getting enough inlining happening.
* Guy: it might be nice to explore the idea of a REPL along with the testing additions (if that makes sense)
  * It would make it much easier to test compat against other engines if we had a REPL
* Guy: We’ll probably need to do a full rebase of the fork soonish
* Till: Joel is working on adding async to the C bindgen API, after that we can start looking at porting StarlingMonkey to P3
  * Guy: For ComponentizeJS we would need to update the splicer, but it should be straight forward
  * Till: Support for custom WIT interfaces uses is a different (heavier) lift
  * Guy: Another problem is that the Componentize test suite uses jco to run the tests – we’d need to port the test suite to using rust or something else.
  * Till: Do plan to use the callback based API, so don’t need to depend on JSPI or some of the other stuff.
  * Guy: So we just need a preview 3 implementation in JS for WASI based on the callback API rather than JSPI

### ComponentizeJS

* Not much outstading right now

### JCO

* New release yesterday to match the WASI versions (Componentize depends on Jco)
  *  `guest-types` command (Implemented by Lachlan)
  * Support for custom weval binary path
  * Toolchain upgrade
* Some issues with versioning wasmtime because of wit-parser in environ vs bingen are different
  * Rust doesn’t seem to have a great transitive dependency story
  * [https://github.com/bytecodealliance/jco/pull/545/commits/6792f0e3b7af0e07a9af47af71cad65768a5b957](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/jco/pull/545/commits/6792f0e3b7af0e07a9af47af71cad65768a5b957)
  * `Jco_bindgen` doesn’t expose the same dependencies – we’d need to do the same hacking for them
  * Guy: Alex mentioned maybe doing this as a check, but this is only really happening in Jco
* Calvin: P3
  * Breaking out the PR and pulling in testing changes from Victor
**Preview3 Update**
* Yosh: How are we doing?
  * Calvin: See the P3 update
  * Yosh: Estimated time ?
    * Calvin: Trying to get this up this week, it is a large diff
    * Victor: There are two steps at the very least – first the Host async stuff merging, then the async C API \+ StarlingMonkey merging (discussed earlier – it’s going to use the callback API instead actually)
    * Guy: Should be good to review in a few days-ish
* Yosh: We’ve started to align on the date for shipping P3 and it’s looking like March 31st
  * Calvin: It looks like we’ll be able to move towards P3 in February
* Yosh: We’ve also tried to pull in more resources where necessary
  * Tomasz: I can jump in to help with some time to ramp up
  * Calvin: That would be great, getting some time from Joel to walk people through it
* Guy: Getting
* Yosh: I can take getting criteria for testing
  * Calvin: Gathering components would be great
  * Victor: We should have an example component soon given the work on wasmtime
* Victor: Joel did a presentation and walk through on async, so it might be possible to watch that async
