# Feb 05, 2025 | [JavaScript subgroup (BA Guest Languages SIG)](https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=NmQ0NzY0cW9hYXFsc3FiaW41YjBxOGpyc21fMjAyNDA4MDdUMTcwMDAwWiBjYWx2aW5AamFmbGFicy5jb20)

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Note: meeting notes linked in the invite.
    1. Please help add your name to the meeting notes.
    1. Please help take notes.
    1. Thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. Resource shadowing due to import mapping  (@vados-cosmonic)

## Attendees

| Attendee         |
|------------------|
| Calvin Preweitt  |
| Guy Bedford      |
| Tomasz Andrzejak |
| Victor Adossi    |

## Notes

### StarlingMonkey

* Guy: Current Streaming/FormData PR awaiting review from Till?
  * Tomasz: Yes, Till has some comments around null pointer checking
  * Added a Rust library to handle some of the parsing for multipart data that was required
  * Fuzzer has been running for a night, no issues found yet
  * Guy: Will ping Till that there’s another PR to review, Fastly has 2 customers that are interested in this
* Guy: Note that we have shared implementation for headers & req/response fetch – I have to pull in diffs, so if there is a way to refactor to enable referencing shared functions that would be good.
  * Tomasz: There’s a small section in request/response that could be done
* Guy: Can we support a build *without* FormData? I.e. toggling the built-in?
  * Tomasz: Easiest way would be to stub the `isInstance` fn, most stuff in req/resp is checking via isInstance calls.
  * Guy: Also, in the install method, we could set methods rather than having generalized macro-based methods
* Guy: GC PR?
  * Tomasz: Need to find time to experiment with that, E2E tests not passing
  * The PR also uses the branch of StarlingMonkey
  * Guy: Different build if this adds overhead?
    * Tomasz: Only enabled during debug?
  * Guy: let’s figure out those tests then get the upstream updated with debug build
* Guy: FormData is definitely important
  * Tomasz: right now the parser is very strict, would be good to get some initial feedback

### ComponentizeJS

* Guy: Till found a bug in the use of `sbrk` and tracked it down
  * [https://github.com/bytecodealliance/ComponentizeJS/commit/6bddd0195124f0bf06704fb6318c762c983894b2](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/ComponentizeJS/commit/6bddd0195124f0bf06704fb6318c762c983894b2)
* Outstanding TODOs, regular expression unicode properties (StarlingMonkey has the same issue), we’ve discussed this before… Along with Intl build
* Guy: Am I right in assuming that the focus is on the Jco side for now and not on the Componentize side?
  * Victor: Large blocker to participating in the P3 release is jco (transpilation) more so than StarlingMonkey, since there are components that *can* be run.

### JCO

* Victor: some PRs under way
  * WebIDL PR (now ready since `webidl` can be used as a binary)
* Victor: After Calvin’s PR got merged we were realized that we needed to update the dependencies
  * Historically there was a wasmtime “async” branch by Joel, and now there is a wasip3-prototyping repo
  * Toolchain (wasm-tools, wit-bindgen, etc) is being updated live, you should be able to use the async stuff
* We should be able to now start trying to use the upstream stuff since the deps in jco have been updated
* Victor: Met with Tomasz and did a walk through of the jco & componentize codebases
* There are at least two things that need to get done
  * Shims
  * Lower level Async impl
* Guy: Great to see the upstream updates, Alex helped to set up a system that made it easy to update the intrinsics.
  * If we have JSPI, and implement Async, then it should be possible to implement it synchronously right?
  * Calvin: there’s the callback in the API right?
  * Guy: In theory an async component bound to preview3 could work just like p2 impl without async implementation changes
    * Victor: So an async component calling the host synchronously
    * Technically you need to support both but we have async components so we can call a sync host.
    * There is *some* other stuff \- ErrorContext can be sent along with a stream at the close time
  * Promises and JS streams have an error slot, we could use that?
  * Victor: In function bindgen I wrote some `await` stuff but it’s not clear that the function itself is `async` — the code
    * Guy: Can’t you assume that you’re going to already be in the async function based on the entrance point?
    * Victor: Yes that should work – need to pass the fact that we’re in an async fn down
  * Guy: What is the first simplest test case for an async component? Is it fine to just support the fully sync host?
    * Victor: Async component \-\> Sync host is the easiest one to get done first, simple value over a future should be the simplest
  * Calvin: stepping through it, trying to get components to build
* Victor: Some links
  * [https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasip3-prototyping](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasip3-prototyping)
  * [https://github.com/WebAssembly/component-model/blob/main/design/mvp/Async.md](https://github.com/WebAssembly/component-model/blob/main/design/mvp/Async.md)
  * [https://github.com/WebAssembly/component-model/blob/main/design/mvp/Explainer.md\#asynchronous-value-types](https://github.com/WebAssembly/component-model/blob/main/design/mvp/Explainer.md#asynchronous-value-types)
  * [https://github.com/bytecodealliance/jco/issues/550](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/jco/issues/550)
  * [https://github.com/bytecodealliance/jco/blob/main/xtask/src/generate/preview2\_tests.rs](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/jco/blob/main/xtask/src/generate/preview2_tests.rs)
* Calvin: Have you been able to build some example components?
  * Victor: yep – the `example-test-programs` crate, you can build one and pull the binary out, will send over command
* Guy: Any questions we should discuss today?
  * Tomasz: Have to try to grind through before I have some reasonable questions,
  * Guy: there’s a script in the base folder of jco (`cargo xtask generate-preview2-tests`?) that builds the wasmtime tests – an auto-generated test folder
  * If we want to claim async support, we should be able to pull in those tests and track the preview3 tests.
  * Tomasz: So I should try and adapt this?
  * Guy: Yes, there are some clocks test so might be a good place to start
* Victor: reorganizing code? Maybe if we’re a Js project primarily then maybe the rust code should move
  * Guy: Well in the future, `jco` could be primarily a rust project, so that’s not necessarily true
  * A crates & packages folder is probably reasonable representative
  * Victor: Do we want to reserve the `jco` name on cargo?
* Guy: there was a bug posted on the p2 implementation
  * [https://github.com/bytecodealliance/jco/issues/550](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/jco/issues/550)
  * Digging into the streams interaction and shims, this issue would be a good place to start
* Victor: Do we want to ge thte debug build?
  * Guy: only recently did we get a possible build w/ stack traces, but it needs to be tested
  * Someone needs to try it out and confirm that it’s working

### Node WASI subgroup

- notes related to Node WASI subgroup go here
