# January 08, 2025 | [JavaScript subgroup (BA Guest Languages SIG)](https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=NmQ0NzY0cW9hYXFsc3FiaW41YjBxOGpyc21fMjAyNDA4MDdUMTcwMDAwWiBjYWx2aW5AamFmbGFicy5jb20)

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
    1. Note: meeting notes linked in the invite.
    1. Please help add your name to the meeting notes.
    1. Please help take notes.
    1. Thanks!
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

| Attendee          |
|-------------------|
| Calvin Preweitt   |
| Guy Bedford       |
| Till Schneidereit |
| Tomasz Andrzejak  |
| Victor Adossi     |

## Notes

### StarlingMonkey

* Pre-optimizing StarlingMonkey?
  * **Victor**: started an effort to try and speed up dynamic builds of components so we don’t have to check in a ton of components, but wasm-opt step was taking far too long
  * **Guy**: ComponentizeJS assumes a lot about the types in the engine binary (same reasons as to why the debug builds aren’t supported)
  * **Till**: Optimization might be a bit of a red-herring?
    * Optimization is already happening, it’s likely with the asyncify bit of it
    * Probably unlikely to be able to asyncify afterwards, as we need the impl
    * Can run wasm-opt without doing any optimizations with *only* asyncify
* Tomasz’s work on PRs
  * File API is the priority
    * **Till**: Will review today or tomorrow
  * CreateObjectURL is next
  * FormData is next after that
  * Did some looking into GC zealing, built SpiderMonkey and StarlingMonkey with that enabled, found some errors. Not sure if these are real issues?
    * **Guy**: [https://github.com/bytecodealliance/StarlingMonkey/blob/main/builtins/web/performance.cpp\#L27](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/StarlingMonkey/blob/main/builtins/web/performance.cpp#L27)
    * **Till**: Issue is likely setting the time APIs which doesn’t work well with wizening – after wizening you could have timestamps that are negative/lower than before wizening
    * There is possibly an equivalent issue in C++ code where statistics are involved – this could require SpiderMonkey changes
  * **Guy**: Could we only set timeorigin when the
    * **Till**: We need to maintain monotonicity, probably need to change wizening/reset timeorigin to the delta and seed it afterwards with the increasing value
    * **Tomasz**: Is there an API for setting the origin?
    * **Till**: We can change this, but this is unlikely to address the GC Zeal issue
      * Best way to approach this is likely seeing if the assert is hit
      * Consider using [SearchFox](https://searchfox.org/)
      * This is \*likely\* snapshot related as it is triggering a GC after resuming a snapshot, likely monotonic clock
    * **Till**: GC \-\> Wizen \-\> GC \-\> Snapshot/Resume \-\> GC
      * Second GC would be dealing with the previous timing being negative
      * **Tomasz**: Could we run without wizening?
      * **Till**: Possible – ideally we’d be able to get the GCs working post-snapshot
* **Till**: Improving Debug builds
  * In ComponentizeJS you *should* be able to use a Debug build
  * **Guy**: Fastly does bundle the debug build
    * If you strip the debug section carefully, only double the size of the release build (only the name section)
    * **Till**: Would like to debug things w/ LLDB though
    * Could support debug symbols as a separate file and load them some other way
  * **Till**: Thinking of how best to integrate ComponentizeJS into StarlingMonkey as I go
* **Till**: Splitting jco into a library & CLI?
  * Only the CLI part of JCO could depend on componentize-js, componentize could depend on the lib part
  * **Guy**: Could move the js-component-bindgen, would be nice to have that still as part as jco
  * **Guy**: Another way to do this would be to factor out the functionality to pure-Rust
    * **Till**: Would probably be OK as a native dependency– Wizer already pulls in a native dependency, and ideally we could even package it as a component and remove the native dependency
  * **Calvin**: The component rust piece in Rust which is *almost* what we want (except for wasm-opt), have been looking at trying to change this into a component, and merging with the component that powers Jco right now.
  * **Guy**: We could have a StarlingMonkey CLI to help replace `jco componentize`
    * Available on NPM, run a REPL
* **Guy**: Was able to get a i18n (Intl API) build of StarlingMonkey working
  * [https://github.com/bytecodealliance/spidermonkey-wasi-embedding/pull/23](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/spidermonkey-wasi-embedding/pull/23)
  * Uses [icu4x](https://github.com/unicode-org/icu4x) which has a bunch of customizations
  * Adding locale selection to the build would likely be a good idea
* **Guy**: Regular Expressions issue with unicode ranges
  * [https://github.com/bytecodealliance/StarlingMonkey/issues/192](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/StarlingMonkey/issues/192)
  * Non-internationalized builds need Regex pre-processing for unicode code-range substitutions at Wizer time
  * If we had a i18n build they could work out of the box, but other than that, we’d need to fix that
    * Possibly using external rgx optimizers
    * Straight forward solution is to just replace
  * See link in issue
* **Tomasz**: WinterCG & Node overlap?
  * Node does support WinterCG, and some builtins have recently landed (ex. `fetch`)
  * **Guy**: In general you end up with the union not quite intersection

### ComponentizeJS

* **Victor**: Joining the projects? Does it make sense to pull ComponentizeJS & Jco together
  * **Guy**: we want to likely deprecate `jco componentize` in favor of `starlingmonkey` commands
* **Victor**: One [PR here](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/ComponentizeJS/actions/runs/12653281444/job/35258224197) for review
* **Guy**: Type conversion documentation
  * Would be great to have this, so that people could know
  * **Victor**: Jco book? Componentize JS docs?
    * **Guy**: Section in Jco
    * Type table & import/export behavior
      * Share the Type Table w/ Jco, but separate import/exports
      * Jco is going to be using the host level description
    * **Guy**: Caveats on optionals/nulls/undefined/throwing, etc would be useful
      * Some future questions as well – enums, etc.

### JCO

* **Calvin**: Splitting up the PR?
* **Calvin**: Issue with the Polling, it needs to be reusable and at present a Promise is being used so need to figure out what to do with that
* **Calvin**: Filesystem code could be improved
* **Guy**: Order could look like
  * Separate out flags & Test that separately
  * Create a new PR on top of that with the async, and add tests for that
