# May 22 - SIG Registries meeting
|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Lann Martin, Danny Macovei, Calvin Prewitt, Robin Brown, Guy Bedford, Bailey Hayes, Taylor Thomas, Brian Hardock
| Note Taker | Robin Brown

Updates:
- Calvin: [`wkg`](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-pkg-tools/)
- Lann: Ivan (Fermyon) prototyped wasm package loader for Spin (only manifest-less app)
- Calvin: Docs SIG is working on component model tooling and registry. The TSC came up with some guidance on vender-neutrality and unfortunately since much tooling targets Warg registries and there's only one Warg registry, the only option that's been approved is to use GitHub OCI-based registries. We'll have to wait till we have tools general over OCI and Warg to start filling out these flows in the docs.
- Calvin: All BA tools that use registries will point to bytecodealliance.org, which hosts a .well-known config file that directs the client to wherever the underlying registry is hosted and gives the BA the ability to choose/change where it's pointed. Currently it's pointed at a GitHub Container Registry instance the BA operates. That pattern is also supported by current Warg tooling and the tooling is able to resolve the correct registry. The wasm-pkg tooling will be able to talk to both. The plan is to update e.g. cargo-component and wac to use wasm-pkg-tools so they can use OCI and Warg.
- Bailey: I'm interested in publishing packages here: https://github.com/webassembly/wasi for WASI. If things could show up in the packages sidebar of the WASI repo, that would be perfect for discoverability. GitHub is open to show Wasm packages in the UI nicely but they don't have time for it right now. I want to start using that and have BA mirror it.
- Calvin: We should be able to have `wkg` in a nice place next month.
- Lann: `wkg` should essentially be the CLI for the libraries in `wasm-pkg-tools`.

Agenda:
- [Calvin] - SIG-Packaging?
    - Calvin: I'm working on the wordering for the [proposal](https://github.com/calvinrp/bytecodealliance-governance/blob/sig-packaging/SIGs/sig-packaging/proposal.md)
    - Calvin: It currently says "SIG-Packaging's primary goal is to describe and build packaging tools that improve the developer distribution experience, for both consumers and publishers, of WebAssembly components. The tools should help programming language tools integrate WebAssembly components for consuming and publishing Wasm component libraries. The group should seek to further registry designs but also integrate with other solutions."
    - *discussion about informal consensus*
    - Robin: Should we submit a PR so that the TSC has something to officially reply to?
    - Bailey: Ya, this looks good (minus the TBD part)
    - Taylor: I think it's valuable to call out the deliverables.
    - Bailey: The `wasm-pkg-tools` should be called out in the deliverables.
    - Calvin: Should Warg bein that list?
    - Bailey: Ya, I think so
    - *discussion about updating requirements, use cases, ...*
    - Taylor: We should try to frame it as case studies where we ask Spin, WasmCloud, run-wasi, CNCF Wasm WG, etc. what they need from registries specifically instead of trying to make abstract use cases.
    - Taylor: We need to provide feedback to existing registry and signing work. We should be involved in those discussions and potentially create integrations for the things people are using (e.g. sigstore).
    - Calvin: Regarding the TBD supporting members, are there people on this call who want to be supporting members
    - *Show of hands from:*
        - Lann Martin
        - Calvin Prewitt
        - Danny Macovei
        - Brian Hardock
        - Robin Brown
    - Calvin: I want to clarify what people think about the "The tools should help programming language tools integrate WebAssembly components for consuming and publishing Wasm component libraries." line.
    - Lann: Let's take this offline.
    - Calvin: I'll submit it as a draft PR for people to comment on
- [Taylor] - OCI
    - Taylor: We have an [OCI artifact layout](https://tag-runtime.cncf.io/wgs/wasm/deliverables/wasm-oci-artifact/) (essentially a structured config type) that has imports/exports around for searchability purposes.
    - Taylor: This repo is an implementation of the OCI artifacts support in Rust that I think should be a separate repo in the BA that is pulled in by e.g. `wasm-pkg-tools`. Once it's more mature, it could be moved into the package tools repo.
    - Taylor: To test this, I brought it into WasmCloud and it's working there.
    - Robin: Can you elaborate on why not to put it in the package tools repo?
    - Taylor: There are a lot of involved parties that aren't already BA maintainers and don't want to have to worry about separating things and avoid needing to learn other parts of the codespace. I see a future where it gets migrated into `wasm-pkg-tools`.
    - Calvin: Is it fine to depend on it as a crate dependency?
    - Taylor: Yup! (something about tagging, I didn't catch)
    - Taylor: I'll look into whether it makes sense to add any support in ORAS
    - Bailey: Isn't that what Lann is using in wasm-pkg-tools
    - Lann: Only in tests
    - Taylor: I want to make sure we get good support in different languages.
    - *some discussion about where the WIT tool will go*
    - Lann: Does your work integrate with the [Registry Metadata custom section support](https://docs.rs/wasm-metadata/latest/wasm_metadata/struct.RegistryMetadata.html)?
    - Taylor: I haven't yet
    - Calvin: What still needs to be added to your repo?
    - Taylor: It's mostly a matter of trying it out and fixing anything we find. It's a very thin wrapper around OCI distribution stuff. The most important things are 1) the types and 2) the helpers.
