# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** May 7, 2024  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:**	By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Bailey Hayes  
Nick Fitzgerald  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant, Secretary (note taker)

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories.   

### Topic #2

The TSC considered a request from a WebAssembly project for adoption by the Alliance as a Hosted Project. This led to a discussion of consistency in response to such suggestions, both when the project is seen to be a good potential candidate for Hosted Project status and when it is not (or is perhaps too early in its lifecycle to decide).

**Action:** David will draft a reply to the project that volunteered for adoption, aligned with the TSC's proposed framing.


### Topic #3
Bailey reported that four different project related activities have simultaneously proposed new blog posts for the Alliance website as an update on their work. She asked that the TSC stand by to provide timely review of those posts and help stage them out over the coming weeks.

### Topic #4
Based on the recent announcement that WasmCon 2024 would move to November in Salt Lake City, the TSC discussed implications for Alliance events, including anticipated ones such as our recurring Plumbers Summit and hands-on hackathons as well as other gatherings it might be appropriate for the Alliance to host.

**Action:** David and Bailey will share the TSC's ideas with the Bytecode Alliance Board and report back on consensus next steps.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 10:42am PT

David Bryant  
Secretary of the meeting