# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** April 16, 2024  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:**	By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Bailey Hayes  
Till Schneidereit  
Nick Fitzgerald  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant, Secretary (note taker)

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.

### Topic #1
Further discussions between the TSC and the members proposing creation of SIG Embedded have resulted in a clearer shared perspective overall, around which the current SIG proposal will be reworked. The existing SIG creation [PR](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/governance/pull/79) has been closed in anticipation of a new PR based on the revised proposal.

### Topic #2

Using draft minutes from the April 2nd meeting as a reference, the TSC discussed steps involved in reviewing draft minutes and publishing them in a timely way to the Alliance meetings [repository](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/meetings), including approving steps David has taken in modifying the meetings repo to fully incorporate the TSC.

### Topic #3
WebAssembly Compositions (WAC), a tool for composing WebAssembly components together, has been formally accepted as a Bytecode Alliance Hosted Project. Adjustments needed to have WAC meet Hosted Project requirements have been completed and the [project](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wac) moved into the Bytecode Alliance organization on GitHub.

**Action:** Bailey will work with the WAC project team to author an announcement blog post and with David on posting and updating the Alliance website accordingly.

### Topic #4
David reported that he'd had a conversation with an existing SIG about formally winding down their operations. The TSC discussed suitable steps for the process to be used in such cases, as this would be the first opportunity to see a SIG through to completion.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 10:43am PT

David Bryant  
Secretary of the meeting