# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** May 21, 2024  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:**	By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Bailey Hayes  
Nick Fitzgerald  
Till Schneidereit  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant, Secretary (note taker)

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, as well as ongoing standards discussions within the W3C Community Group. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reveiwers on the requests discussed.   

### Topic #2

The TSC reviewed and approved David's draft response to a proposal received regarding a potential new Hosted Project, allowing him to send it on behalf of the TSC.

### Topic #3
David summarized progress in reviewing the Alliance's Recognized Contributor (RC) roster. The TSC discussed how to properly maintain the roster given the possibility that contributors might move away from projects into new areas and therefore no longer be actively involved in Alliance communities, and also that active RC status is tied to active voting in relevant elections per language in the TSC charter.

**Action:** The TSC will revisit at a future meeting the practical mechanics of managing the RC roster, especially in the context of voting in RC elections.

### Topic #4
Till highlighted cases where ongoing Alliance project work needed some additional attention in order to maintain the vendor-neutral posture required on behalf of the Alliance. The TSC discussed proper framing of guidance it would give in order to clarify and reinforce vendor neutral positioning, and the possibility that some additional work would need to be coordinated to provide vendor neutral implementation, documentation, and examples for Alliance projects.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 11:06am PT

David Bryant  
Secretary of the meeting