## Dec 6, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Calvin Prewitt, Brian Hardock, Danny Macovei, Peter Huene, Robin Brown
| Note Taker | Robin Brown

Updates:
- Peter: WAC parser registry implementation can fetch (and optionally bundle) referenced packages
- Peter: Danny asked to get unlocked-deps output from cargo-component. There're some features missing in wasm-parser for instance imports. I'm working with Alex on it, we should be able to get it done with some limitations. We need to plumb through the import names in the generated module thorugh to wit-component so that it generates imports with unlocked-deps. I have a few ideas for how to flow that information through.
- Danny: There's a kebab-name issue with wasm-compose that was preventing bundling/locking from working in the depsolver that has been fixed. The depsolve PR is ready for review but won't pass tests till the fix has been released. I wrote a test for bundling a diamond of components and will work to add another one for a tree scenario. 
- Danny: I've been thinking about how to extract WIT info from components being published for the purpose of displaying that information in a registry UI. I opened a PR for wasm-tools so that we don't have to load the whole component into memory to parse it. I was looking at wit-printer as inspiration for representing the wit hierarchy and Robin pointed out the go folks have done work to generate JSON from WIT. I've also been looking into my own printer approach. -> PR for incremental wit decoding https://github.com/macovedj/wasm-tools/pull/9
- Calvin: I haven't had time to work on the CLI PR recently and have been working on our implementation. I'm hoping we'll have something before the holidays.
