## Jan 18, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Bailey Hayes, Peter Huene, Robin Brown, Lann Martin, Till Schneidereit, Luke Wagner. Brian Hardock
| Note Taker | Bailey Hayes

* [Bailey] - Meeting with APAC
    * Security researcher interested in this work currently in China, would like to attend
    * https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/converter.html?iso=20230118T120000&p1=207&p2=33&p3=234
* [Robin] Server implementation progressing
* [Robin] Threat model underway and discussion time for next week.
* [Lann] OCI packaging proposal
    * Content-type, MIME, etc needs to be agreed on
    * [Luke] concrete representations of a single representation of a single component, there could be a OCI representation. 
    * [Robin] is it going to contain the binary representation?
    * [Luke] exploded representation, not OCI explicit, if you want to de-dup by exploding an entire component into my directory -> This is something we can define in the component model aka root of the merkel tree.
    * [Luke] Then anotehr spec would be if you then want to describe how this is in the OCI
    * [Luke] Content hash is always as-if it was exploded. Bias towards exploded. Makes the most sense if you have the entire file at once.
    * [Luke] must have a canonical exploding
    * [Lann] Complexity is in canonical explosion, must be recursive. What is the hash of a nested component?
    * [Lann] If you use the exploded hash, and wanted to do a partial fetch, you need a manifest of the tree of partial things. That needs its own top-level way of being bundled.
    * https://github.com/fermyon/wasm-splice
    * https://hackmd.io/VIMqSeeeScKOLagaIP2P5A
    * One path of the split out component approach.
    * [Luke] Many ways to stick a wasm inside OCI
    * Application that contains components. Interoperable and composable. 
    * When one is using a OCI registry as the backing content store of warg, then this is the OCI media type that we would use, component-only
    * Reconstruct the single-binary file mechanically from the fragments
    * The internal host engine could store things collapsed
    * Roughly linear time of a single binary, multiple hashs, linearly walk through single binary so long as it's been properly exploded.
    * [Till] publish a bundle wasm file, registry can explode to components 
    * [Luke] Compilling the core wasm is the bulk operation. We wouldn't loose the streaming compatibility
    * [Till] Bias towards the exploded format, download multiple modules in parallel. Burst download all of the assets. 
    * [Lann] Can always ship this as single file, don't have two separate hashing algorithms. 
    * Adapter fusion needs to know both sides to generate core code. Who provided this function, initial impl will treat the entire component DAG as one thing, so specialized to that one root component.
    * Meeting participants in agreement that Canonical Split has the most desirable semantics, but as Lann points out, the most complex to specify. 
    * [Robin] sequential hashing is MVP approach
    * [Luke] does OCI have it's own URL scheme?
    * [Lann] [Warg Record Publish API](https://hackmd.io/1-PXR239TyuEj_d5Eq06Pw?both#Content-Endpoint-Examples) for examples for oci, http, ipf
