## Nov 1, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Lann Martin, Danny Macovei, Calvin Prewitt, Kyle Brown, Chris Dickinson, Luke Wagner, Peter Huene
| Note Taker | Chris Dickinson

Updates:
- [Calvin] Working on the PR for the Monitors API;
- [Danny] New Syntax in Depsolve

Agenda:
- [Kyle] Depsolve Semantics
- [Calvin] Federation as two sub-problems

Minutes:

- Updates:
    - Calvin working on PR from stuff agreed to last week
        - quick question: the warg registry header for the ref impl, when it's not supporting it: we have two options
            1. ignore it (since it's not returned in the response, the cli should handle)
            2. throw an error, saying "unsupported"
                - calvin leaning towards error
                - kyle agreed
                - calvin to implement this on all endpoints
    - Danny has been looking at resuming the locking / bundling / depsolving stuff since the changes got merged
        - have it working for the most part for things that aren't compilation
        - breaking into:
            - hand written components
            - guest compilation
        - one issue with kebab-y case; wasm-compose kebab-cases things (have talked to peter about this)
        - for guest compilation, most guest compilation uses resources now but wasm-compose doesn't support resources (yet)
        - handwritten stuff works
        - joel is looking at implementing wasm-compose
            - peter confirms that joel was looking at it, but he's been pulled off to something else; peter looking at WAC to support resources
        - danny: should I pause on things? it's not breaking anything to introduce these tools even if they break on components that include wasi
            - it's a long-lived branch that needs to be kept up to date with the project [CD double check me here!]
        - calvin: keep doing cleanup and we'll come back to it in a few days
    - calvin: quick clarifying q for luke: on ba community stream last night; it sounded like the vote for wasi preview 2 may not happen until jan because jco may not be fully compatible
        - luke: yes, we're looking at giving buffer time there
        - challenge is adding asyncify; wasi has a blocking poll(); browser adding Promise API support for suspending stacks; we're talking to Guy actively to see if there's things we can do to make the problem easier. EOY is roughly the goal, but it might take a little bit extra
- Agenda
    - 1st, **Depsolve Semantics** from Kyle (see also "Kyle's Note" below)
        - feature matrix wise
        - lot of complexity in what we want out of the registry
            - binding namespaces, doing so in a way that changes the namespace, override individual packages, staging registries, idea of being able to reproduce the publish context
                - you can't actually tell what the state of the registry was when somebody built a package. but we could reproduce it if you had the loglength at the time of package build
        - these things are semi-orthogonal
            - what are things we can do to get started?
            - i'd like to propose carving the smallest version of this, while leaving ourselves room
        - these are four different feature directions (import, overrides, reproducible publish context, trust reset)
            - how do these relate to your orthogonal concepts, calvin?
            - calvin: wondering if we should separate out publishing and using packaging that use deps from other registries, vs the other problem of how we determine where a package lives in a nice way.
                - problem 1 is publishing a package that deps on remote packages
                - problem 2 the user experience of referring to those deps
            - kyle: having trouble imagining pulling one namespace that deps on another that prevents publishing [cd check this]
            - calvin: wondering if we could leverage how we have things set up and extend it. what if we add, when publishing a package, the mapping
                - kyle that would help in some ways, but a thing we're trying not to lose is the ability to relocate packages
                - what do you capture in a package or release to preserve this relocatability.
                    - don't think we have to get that to get "import"
        - kyle: propose most minimal addition:
            - add import to the operator log; this was brought into the registry as this name
            - not remappable
            - no "import as" (yet; it's its own feature), cannot be rebound
            - introduce bindings into the registry state
            - if you can take on newer versions of things, that loosens the constraints
            - entry looks like `registry -> registry.wasi.dev`
            - calvin: nested namespaces later on: does this serve as a prefix:
                - like `my:great:things`, does `my -> registry.example.com` serve as a prefix?
                - kyle: that's a whole other feature; that makes things different
                    - first step: no colons in imports to start with
                - calvin: global to the registry, part of the operator log, only append
                    - validator makes sure you're not changing anything
                    - kyle: adds a hashmap from names to origins
                        - rebindings are rejected. add-only semantics
                    - calvin: any problem putting a domain name in the operator logs
                    - kyle: no getting around it
                        - this may not end up in the checkpoint.
                        - chris: how to handle domain names changing hands over time
                            - kyle: future feature, but right now hard resets on client and registry
                        - lann: have this bind the remote operator's key
                            - so that when domains change hands there's a cryptographic indication
                        - kyle: largely that happens through monitors
                        - lann: think we should be more proactive about this than monitors; dns is a top-10 way that supply chains get compromised
                        - kyle: you get the checkpoint from your registry then verify it against the other registry.
                        - lann: we might need more details
                        - kyle: need to write up the flow of validation – the process of knowing nothing about the registries to knowing about N
                        - lann: if part of validation is "you always check in with your home registry", then that might be okay
                    - kyle: how do people feel about this proposal?
                    - calvin: client cli would be using these?
                        - kyle: no client overrides right now
                        - company will have a registry that has the overrides for you
                        - calvin talking about this without "import as", so if there's a namespace conflict,
                            - kyle: you might need two entries
                            - you don't want the case where one name maps to two places, that's rebinding / not allowed right now
                            - probably want another constraint, not multiple imports of the same name and i don't import and locally define the same name
                            - how does the client know?
                            - calvin: you're talking about shadowing?
                            - kyle: the entry doesn't give you an idea of whether or not the registry defines a namespace
                                - so maybe split into namespace definition and import definition
                                - lann: having an import and export entry would be very nice in the log
                                - kyle: import entry and export entries couldn't refer to the same namespace
                                - this might be a "next week" question
                                - "you'll find this in my log" / "you'll find this in their log"
                                - calvin: you have to pre-declare which namespaces you have inside of you before anything could be published
                                - kyle: proposal is `namespace` + `import`
                                - kyle: "import as" is an additional field to add to import – could do this in the future import field has the namespace name, origin, and an extra optional field to say "import as foo" `my.a = other.a`; in the future `my.a = other.c`
                                - calvin: how to modify this
                                - kyle: one thing about putting it in the operator log is that there's already a mechanism
                                - calvin: we don't have an api that allows you to add things to the operator logs. only internal
                                - kyle: only internal for now! that might be an orthogonal feature - "publish api to operator"
                                - kyle: bind on first use – using a namespace that hasn't been used – it might be possible to make it bind on first use. you need to have an origin to bind to
                                    - not a super-safe recommendable pattern
                                    - calvin: assuming the authorization header would be attached so the registry can identify the user and deny this. wondering if we want a mechanism through the cli
                                        - kyle: answer is "maybe"
                                    - lann: i've thought about this for all of ten minutes now, and it might have more problems than it's worth. I like the basic idea of adding a simple feature and building on it. I'm wondering if we can make it somewhat more complicated.
                                        - confident that domain names will change; wondering if we can get the same effect w/more complexity – what if we just mirror registry's operator logs. these new entries would, rather than importing a domain name
                                            - kyle: point was to get a mapping we could commit to
                                            - lann: by copying the operator logs, you're committing to the signing key of the registry you're importing
                                            - kyle: if we know we're going to add remappability, and that's a problem we want to solve
                                            - lann: the reason i suggest it at this point instead of waiting until later because it's the sort of the operational problem that causes me to not be able to go away from my computer at 5pm
                                            - kyle: if the remote registry goes down, your local registry still has all of the info
                                            - calvin: wondering if it should be a unique identifier in that log – and use that id in the warg registry header. 
                                            - kyle: adding a lot of indirection
                                            - lann: to reframe: I am quite confident that we will not want to have DNS in our cryptographically verified data structures. whether we want to do it in v1 as a thing we know we'll change, or not do it is the question
                                            - kyle: "what is the identity of a registry" comes up a lot
                                                - my concept of this for a while has been that the registry is a domain that serves answers verifiable by consensus
                                                - maybe for now the identifier is the domain, maybe in the future the identity is something else
                                                - if not domains, then what?
                                                - lann: the current registry is at `preview.registry`, that is not where that lives forever (hopefully!) we could take the `preview` off. 
                                                - kyle: do we need to indirect on domain name, or the ability to change domain names?
                                                - lann: it's weird that you'd have dangling pointers in your log that are no longer useful
                                                - lann: this might not be such a big problem – to go with your suggestion initially, and to get what I propose eventually. you can get another registry's operator log through this mechanism + the original domain. you could return a `location` header for "this is where i fetched it from most recently"
                                                    - these are identifiers that _happen to be_ domains
                                                - kyle: the header that gave means we're not directly trying to fetch from these domains directly
                                                    - but what if I want to check the remote registry manually?
                                                - lann: talking about namespaces mapped to github users
    - calvin: five minutes out, what agreement?
    - lann: in favor of the basic proposal
    - calvin: adding namespaces known and imports to registry operator log
    - **ACTION ITEM** kyle: I will open an issue describing the new operator records – and we can vote to accept
                                                

#### Kyle's Note

Import -> Import As -> Rebind Import
Overrides (Staging?) -> Update Overrides
Reproducible publish context
Trust Reset
Nested Namespaces (`a:b:c:foobar`)
Publish API to operator
Import on First Publish

The base case for interpreting a package’s dependencies during a depsolve is to interpret them as
A) referring to the same package logs as were associated with the dependency names during publishing
B) as of the checkpoint the author saw when they published.

This is the most robust option, because the interpretation doesn’t change and can’t become invalid/unsolvable; and it is also the most secure against a compromised registry because they can’t change the meaning of dependencies.

Some use cases will require us to relax these constraints:

1. Transitive Dependency Upgrading
   * As a consumer of a package X which depends on Y which depends on Z (all three are unlocked),
   * When I depsolve X at a point after Z has published releases more recently than Y,
   * I would like it to consider the most recent releases of Z allowed by Y's constraints,
   * So that I can benefit from security and performance improvements.
2. Accepting Overrides
   * As a consumer of a package X which depends on Y (both are unlocked),
   * When I depsolve X at a point after Y has been overriden (or had a trust reset) since X was last published,
   * I would like it to use the overriden version of Y,
   * So that I can benefit from security and performance improvements.

Challenges:

* If we relax constraints A and B, a registry can unilaterally override any package and cause clients to select any content version they want.
* If we relax constraints A and B, a registry can override/trust-reset/re-map packages and namespaces causing dependency solves to no longer succeed.

So the main question is: How do we offer the flexibility we want without allowing registries to accidentally or maliciously break dependency solves or provide bad content to clients?
