# October 16, 2024 | [JavaScript subgroup (BA Guest Languages SIG)](https://www.google.com/calendar/event?eid=NmQ0NzY0cW9hYXFsc3FiaW41YjBxOGpyc21fMjAyNDA4MDdUMTcwMDAwWiBjYWx2aW5AamFmbGFicy5jb20)

## Agenda

N/A

## Attendees

| Attendee          |
|-------------------|
| Calvin Prewitt    |
| Dirk Baeumer      |
| Saul Cabrera      |
| Till Schneidereit |
| Victor Adossi     |
| Yosh Wuyts        |

## Notes

### StarlingMonkey

* **Till:** PR might be interesting for people to take a look at
  * [https://github.com/bytecodealliance/StarlingMonkey/pull/161](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/StarlingMonkey/pull/161)
  * As of today, CMake would test things or produce a `starling.wasm` binary that is a core module which didn’t do anything useful (can be used by Wizer, and on `wasmtime` CLI). Didn’t have access to P2 APIs
  * With this PR we’re proposing `starling-raw.wasm`, with the *new* `starling.wasm` being an uninitialized (no wizer), and an actual component
  * Uses a properly preopened dir to pull JS from
  * The beginnings of a CLI, but not much useful outside of that
    * No FS APIs
    * Useful for testing (can pass arguments viaENV var)
    * Can run it under `wasmtime serve` and do rapid testing by on-demand loading files
      * Ex. You *should* be able to `wasmtime serve -S cli --dir . starling.wasm`
  * This is useful for testing starling monkey
* **Victor:** is possible to write tests with Rust yet?
  * **Till:** Yes (given that this would land)
* **Victor:** What about calling it `starling-module.wasm`
  * **Till:** Thought about this, only useful for testing component loading
  * `-module` sounds like a more modular build tooling, not like an internal intermediate thing – `-raw` sounds more
  * **Calvin:** What about `starling-wasi-p1.wasm` ?
    * **Till:** Interesting idea, but it sounds like the same thing but based on P1 when it’s not
    * **Calvin:** So it’s basically a module with the expectation of being a component
    * **Till:** During Wizen-ining you can only use P1 APIs, then you get converted to P2. Beforehand the core module imports the P1 APIs, but you can’t use them (no host)
* **Calvin:** Did you find Joel’s [component-init](https://github.com/dicej/component-init) useful?
  * **Till:** Started looking into component init, wanted to use it for shared libs.
  * Locally I have a branch for shared libraries, but doesn’t support init because component-init is a little difficult due to needing to duplicate a large amount of `componentize-py` (which is very python specific, and sometimes uses shared libs that aren’t likely to be present in other contexts)
  * If it was in a more general form (i.e. run this, use these shared libraries & preopens) would have been easier to use, but was hard to pull out of `componentize-py`
* **Till:** Has everyone seen the [dlopen() proposal](https://github.com/WebAssembly/component-model/issues/401)? Should be useful for python people (and is being built to be very easy to use in that sphere)
  * **Dirk:** This *would* be very useful
  * **Till:** Shouldn’t be too far from being implementable. Right now it passes bytes and gets a re
* **Victor:** Does it make sense to prototype in the host?
  * **Till:** the instantiation is really important and needs to be canonical
  * **Till:** If someone wants to prototype this, we *could* at least try it, someone would have to implement it for `jco` and `wasmtime`.
  * Moving from WIT to canonical builtins is often more challenging here.
  * **Till:** reminder – Joel & I have been working on a new WASI HTTP extension proposal
    * [Proposal](https://gist.github.com/tschneidereit/3b9aa3709ca8129ba6644fbaf8139fed)
      * Summarized: a way to append to outgoing bodies, that enables streaming to happen in the backend, without WASM having to be invoked for every individual splice
      * You can queue chunks to be written, exit the instance, and the host
      * This has been very useful at Fastly
      * Formal proposal incoming at a subgroup meeting
    * [Joel’s example repo](https://github.com/dicej/wasi-http-tests)

### Preview 3 (Yosh)

* Receiving Qs from Microsoft: What are the things that need to happen to ship P3 sooner?
  * Luke is updating the spec
  * Joel is implementing Async & Errors
* There are some open questions about the mapping of HTTP to P3 (can we reformulate?)
  * **Till:** [https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-http/tree/main/wit-0.3.0-draft](https://github.com/WebAssembly/wasi-http/tree/main/wit-0.3.0-draft)
* We can begin updating specs to have P3 drafts of existing specs
  * Joel pulled out an RFC
* The big open question is when is a ratified implementation likely (i.e. a second impl, `jco`)
  * Right now it seems “Summer-ish” is the answer
  * Variable is `jco` – how fast would a second implementation happen
* What’s the current status & Async? Are we still going for JSPI?
  * **Till:** Most important thing first – it needs to be sooner (Fermyon certainly wants it to be sooner).
  * This will mean we’ll have to settle on final interfaces very quickly (i.e. in the next couple months).
    * **Yosh:** have some calls scheduled, so this lines up
  * **Till:** We also need some adapters – P2 \-\> P3 and *maybe* P1 \-\> P3 (obviously, we can chain them). Should be relatively easy, since we’re simply introducing new canonical ABIs. That said, you *cannot* mix P2 and P3 async APIs.
  * Toolchains should also have a second implementer – StarlingMonkey should be one.
    * It’d be easier to port P2 APIs *without* external Async (internally polling), but it’s much less interesting as validation – we really want to have 2 runtime/guest lang impls of externalized event loop and async.
    * How this interacts with the host requires some work
  * **Till:** Would also be good to have a couple high-value implementations of using this all in existing frameworks (e.g. tokio, golang async) – we want to be able to support existing ecosystems
  * **Yosh:** Are these prerequisites for shipping P3?
    * **Till:** Yes – of course the tokio stuff wouldn’t necessarily mean a *landed* PR, but more to ensure that there are no huge impedance mismatches
  * **Till:** \`jco\` as a second implementation would be great, but Dirk’s would be the most useful as a fully separate implementation (not suing the current tooling).
    * **Dirk:** We’re somewhat idle due to the issues with threads. Without threads, the target audience doesn’t benefit much. Not actively doing active development.
    * The key thing is compatibility (not perf necessarily) – the ability to compile multi-threaded code
  * **Calvin:** Plate cleared, currently digging into jco, asyncify, & JSPI support
    * This \*must\* work by Wasmcon talk time (Calvin giving talk with Mendy)
    * Danny and Calvin’s plates are both cleared.
  * **Victor:** What do you think about moving errors and getting someone else working on it and possibly pushing it in P2.x?
    * **Yosh:** Feels like this is worth bringing to luke
  * **Till:** Would also be useful for StarlingMonkey – error handling is poor
    * There are some places where the fallibility doesn’t matter, but it would be good to address that in a better error handling story in WASI itself

### (back to) Threading discussion (Till)
* **Till:** There’s been some discussion w/ Alex about coop scheduled threads in User space – should be a lot less work, and *should* address portability concerns
* Alex is away at a conference right now, but once he’s back might be worth taking some time to try and explore it.
* Maybe conversations can be had about it once there’s at least something to discuss
* Also unclear is how this will land in V8 as well
  * Some issues may be present with shared everything for some external teams (possible breakage with products that have high WASM use of an older vintage)
  * **Till:** Getting this working with POSIX threads rather than web worker workaround is definitely what both groups want

### StarlingMonkey Testing
* **Victor:** Is there a language that could replace the tests currently (that are bash scripts)?
* **Till:** NodeJS would work, there is some intent to merge componentize-js, so NodeJS would become a hard dep at that point
* At some point, a WASI package that enables lightweight process management would be great.
* **Till:** It *is* technically possible to write the tests in Rust, build StarlingMonkey and run sub processes to execute
