# January 7 SIG-Community Meeting

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announce that the meeting will be recorded and hit record as agreed upon in inaugural meeting. 
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. SIG-community stream (Bailey)
    2. Election results (Karen)
    3. Upcoming events (Divya)

## Attendees

* Divya Mohan
* Bailey Hayes
* Karen Chu

## Notes

* [Bailey] SIG-community stream - want to reboot it; need to reschedule it; let’s figure out a time
    * [Karen] maybe not Friday/Mon; can we do the survey?
    * [Divya] how about kicking it back off at the original time? And then during that stream sharing the survey to get community input; any conflicts with other WASM activities?
    * [Bailey] next stream is scheduled for Jan 28 @ 11 AM ET
* [Karen] Election results - should we announce the results beyond the email that went out? maybe come up with a checklist for announcements in the future
    * [Bailey] will ask Eric or David to write a blog post
    * [Divya] checklist sounds like a good idea — how about the 3 of us work on this in the next few meetings?
    * [Bailey] social media makes sense, anything else? 
    * [Karen] community stream!
    * [Divya] do we have a Bluesky account?
    * [Bailey] might be a David question; we also have a Mastodon account
    * [Divya] do we have a newsletter?
    * [Bailey] we’ve had aspirations for a newsletter
    * [Karen] is this enough to create guidelines or do we want to keep iterating?
    * [Divya] we should have this codified; what should the final version be? we need consensus but maybe it’s just the 3 of us. maybe David too. let’s have a PR open so it’s open for comments. 
    * [Bailey] we should say what we want; we should just say this is SIG-community’s best practices for sharing and community news; we can leave it open for comment but we probably won’t get any
    * [Bailey] SIG-embedded has docs in their own repo; we can set that up easily; or we can put it in the governance repo; or just the BA meetings repo
    * [Divya] would vote for a separate repo; thinking about it from a scalability perspective; there might be more docs in the future; not exactly governance related
    * [Karen] +1 to separate SIG-community repo
    * [Bailey] will do it right now - [BA SIG-community GH repo](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/sig-community)

* [Divya] Upcoming events - any upcoming events aside from wasm.io? 
    * [Bailey] no concrete plans; there are currently no plans for a co-located wasm event for KubeCon; have talked about a co-lo event (tues/wed) with wasm.io (thur/fri) but would mean 2 full weeks of travel (Kubecon would be week after)
    * [Karen] what would the co-lo with wasm.io be for?
    * [Bailey] we're currently in the process of releasing WASI p3; need to integrate across everybody soon; want to do a roadmap session (component model MVP, WASI p4, etc)
    * [Karen] what is the P in P3? 
    * [Bailey] preview - a word from standards; preview of a proposal; not advanced — phrase 0/1
    * [Bailey] wasm meeting group - in-person meeting once/twice a year; next one will be on [Feb 12-13 at the Fastly office](https://github.com/WebAssembly/meetings/blob/main/main/2025/CG-02.md)

## Action Items

* [ ] Figure out co-lo event at wasm.io (Bailey) 
* [ ] PR for SIG-community announcements in [new repo](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/sig-community) (Karen and Divya)
* [ ] Publicize survey for community stream new time (Bailey)
