## August 24th - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Kyle Brown, Nathaniel McCallum, Lann Martin, Peter Huene, George Kulakowski, Nicholas Farshidmehr, Luke Wagner, Mossaka
| Note Taker | Bailey Hayes

### Agenda

- [Kyle & Lann & Nathaniel] - Update on high-level registry design
    - Discussing log and registry structure
    - ppt presentation
    - Certificate transparency project - detect when cert authorities are lying. Shares similar problems that we are trying to address.
    - Verifiable Log (Certificate Transparency). Allow parts of the log to be verified over-time and valuable given size of the log we're expecting.
    - Verifiable Map (Certificate Revocation). Essentially a tree map that is similar to verifiable log. Using in certification revocation, don't care about timeline, but care if a particular certificate has been revoked.
    - Log is a collection of a diff. The map is a state
    - Two related data structures, you can reconstruct the map from the log.
    - Make small queries into the map without needing to replay the log.
    - Extending this idea by treating each node in this map, these little-logs are smaller and consumable in their entireity.
    - Hash chained log and this high-level verifiable data structure.
    - Registry log => Package logs
    - The top-level boxes are a single-hash that commits to the state of everything underneath it. That commits to the entire package registry state. This is what lets us scale.
    - In the map, quickly locate head of a sublog then quickly walk the tree.
    - 1. Permissions 2. Releases 3. Auditing 4. Annotations
    - Operator Log: maintaining structures about properties of the log. Key rotation, hash rotation, auditing.
    - Operator log: small
    - Registry log: ~256GB, 8 mil packages. Too big for a client to handle it but fine for the registry to manage. Therefore clients verify consistency and package log inclusion.
    - Package logs: small. 8 mil of them, but only download necessary packages and fully validate those.
    - The linux kernel has had 755 releases. So very large project my have 1000 releases.
    - Package contents are obviously going to be larger, but this covers the log contents.
    - Luke: some algos like dep-solving, we could calculate with a single-hash input. In our package log, a dep-solved component, a locked component, we could make this entire thing deterministic operation by sticking this into the package log. Each package release gives a closed set of dependencies that it needs.
    - Nathaniel: Other props that are important that emerge out of this too. If the client has some knowledge about some state of the log, it wants the server to commit some state, making it much more difficult to lie.
    - Luke: Vaguely in the zero-knowledge proof setting?
    - Nathaniel: Inclusion proofs of the log. Or a consistency proof. Prove that registry knows about old state.
    - Lann: Queryable commitment
    - Nathaniel: Ask registry what is the state? You're never dealing with mutable state across multiple queries.
- [Luke] Question: what's a high-level summary of our relation to sigstore?
    - [Kyle] There doesn't have to be any. You can use an instance backed by them, but there isn't any constraint that you have to use sigstore to use the registry.
    - [Luke] At a high-level, would these ever be complimentary? Does this subsume sigstore?
    - [Lann] One way they could overlap is that you could post signatures to sigstore. One of their components is a verifiable log (rekor).
    - [Luke] Is there anything that would be a candidate for re-use?
    - [Lann] We will have too much data for rekor to consume. The primary way to use rekor is to publish signatures for containers.
    - [Nathaniel] We're doing key management within the log and therefore we needed to build something to build it in.
    - [Lann] The overlap is at the top-level not at the lower-level.
- [Nathaniel] Trust anchor. I don't have to validate the entire log. Sentinels, validators that are publicly available. Ask sentinels what heads of the log you have seen? Ask trust anchor. Between the two can validate registry and package log, and have high-confidence.
- [Luke] does sigstore have a web of trust?
- [Lann] sigstore could be like the following metaphor: equivalent to publishing your proof in the newspaper
- [Luke] Let's say you're already using sigstore for other things and you're happy with it. Could the same sigstore log cover components and containers.
- [Lann] Yes, like publish every hour or validator connect directly to the registry and receive a live stream of events.
- [Luke] Thank you. I don't have a good info on its pervasiveness or successfulness?
- [Lann] Largest in container spaces. PyPi was looking at it.
- [Nathaniel] The reason you hear about it, they do an excellent job at marketing. But we haven't seen much adoption out of the container space. If you go back to the package log slides, it would be a very reasonable thing to publish a release, then annotate the release with info with like build and git hash. Auditor comes along and reproduces the build and then the auditor could annotate that they were able to reproduce the build.
- [Bailey] events
- [Nathaniel] 2.5x operations per sec than bitcoin.
- [Kyle] we can parallelize some of this, then registry log is something we can throw a bunch of events at it. We're going to need a very performant content delivery network. All of it will be content addressable.
- [Luke] Immutable URL's that map to mutable. I might know of BA members that are great at serving content from the edge.
- [Mossaka] Raft consensus 
- [Lann] We don't quite have a distributed systems problem. The amount of data we have will fit within in RAM and won't need to be distributed. Everything else can be embarrassingly parallizable.
- [Kyle] Passing up to registry logs, if it doesn't see an update to the registry for a bit, that's OK. The key is that the package log/contents shouldn't be broadcasted until uploaded to registry log.
- [Nathaniel] Dev workflow vs deployment workflow. Dev we want latest state minus some diffs. For deployment, we want full dep resolution.
- [pypi](https://discuss.python.org/t/pep-480-surviving-a-compromise-of-pypi-end-to-end-signing-of-packages/5666) is this related?
- [Dan package paper](https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~dstefan/pubs/brown:2017:spam.pdf)
