## Nov 16, 2022 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Lann Martin, Kyle Brown, Brian Hardock, Luke Wagner, Peter Huene, Roman Volosatovs, Mossaka, Johnnie Birch, Bailey Hayes
| Note Taker | Lann Martin, Kyle Brown

### Agenda

* [Kyle] - Cloud Native Wasm Day CFP
    * Kyle going to propose a component/registry demo-based talk
    * Mossaka going to propose a talk about slight interfaces (proposals); possibly WASI as well
* [Lann] - How do we encode package metadata (authors, licenses, descriptions, tags, etc.) to be indexed by a registry?
    * Lann: How do we get them into some format that can be used by the registry?
    * Lann: Maybe it's in a custom discussion? or if we're bundling files with components, then we need a better story for all types, and maybe we could use separate files to standardize the encoding
    * Kyle: I think it depends, and different things may live in different places. I'm curious what Luke thinks about where these will live.
    * Lann: How do we associate other kinds of data with a component? We've talked about associating things with a component in custom section and splitting things out into files on disk. We need to figure out how this works sooner than later for canonicalization/signing.
    * Luke: There are some questions about signing compact and exploded file contents. Maybe there are multiple logical representations for a component, like a single file or multiple files. Maybe it's just the advanced use cases where we need multi-file. Hopefully upload and download can allow people to use different formats. If we have a manifest that refers to each part and it's a static file (readable from the wasm) / custom sections (not visibile). I'm happy to talk more about that.
    * Lann: I'll post a link to the original [publish API](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/blob/main/proposals/Publish-API.md#content-digest). It provides a way to encode a manifest of a directory of files. We can use a mechanism like this but it has broader implications. There would need to be a canonical naming/representation for metadata. This sort of matches the naming of custom sections.
    * Lann: This is a canonicalization system to be careful about, but if you're strict/simple about it. It can work.
    * Luke: Is it a manifest like a JSON file?
    * Lann: You can think of it like a TAR header
    * Lann: I think that a carefully designed canonicalization of the wasm binary form would work. You have to define an ordering of the sections and you can't say that they can't be "the last section"
    * Luke: Inside a wasm binary, there are things you might want to explode: the nested components, core modules, data sections, and custom sections,
    * Lann: One strategy is to say "we define a canonical ordering of sections in a .wasm, you hash in that order"
    * Luke: When you split this out into multiple files the manifest could be order preserving. Or a skeletonized component could have imports in all the places the original one had things.
    * Lann: Would it be plausible to require that manifest in the first section of an uploadable thing
    * Luke: If I'm uploading, I'm uploading a single .wasm or ...
    * Luke: If I'm uploading a package I upload a package and a manifest and then you...
    * 
* [Lann] - [User Stories](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/blob/main/docs/user-stories.md) I and J (static assets / associated files); "component archive"?
    * Lann: There's all kinds of extra data that could be associated with a component: ML models, bundled JS, interpreted language runtime files, standard libraries, etc.
    * Lann: Do we feel like those sorts of things belong in a registry? and if so are they covered by embedding files in components or are there use cases wehre it doesn't make sense to embed files in components? Maybe there are use cases for that.
    * Lann: Do all of these belong in the existing entity types we've discussed (e.g. components).
    * Luke: I think storing arbitrary bytes might be out of scope, but if you have some bytes and code that wants to use those bytes, there are some questions about how the runtime associates them. Currently, runtimes are creating a file system and mounting it to the component, but it's not standardized it just "happens". It's unclear what happens if you combine them e.g. do they share the file system? This is why I think data segments have a good story. I think the previous discussion addresses how to separate things into layers, but the remaining problem is "I give you a data segment, that's not the same as I use files" how do we connect this together for users. Can we bake it into libc? Everyone has to swap it in, it's different for eacha language...
    * Luke: If you use a virtualized file system and you could have a component that bundles your component with the file data you need. This could make it easy to connect files to your component generally. What if you have dynamic stuff you want to mount non-trivially with your static stuff, maybe you have a third things a blob store...
    * Luke: I think we should build a tool that helps people bundle this stuff together generally but until we have it we need to think about other solutions
    * Lann: In terms of the registry I'm curious about how the linking between a component and the python runtime it needs.
    * Luke: If we started with a component that bundles a core wasm python module, the adapter code for your application (wizer?) a module too but generated, 
    * Luke: We can have a separate package type for a core module and allow for an explicit version dependency relationship import. To give more separation. 
    * Luke: there's three degress of how static code is
        * Code which you want wizer'd into byte code into the data segments representing linear memory, an active data segment loaded into memory
        * The static assets which look like files but that you want to look like data and talk to them through wasm interfaces
        * The third category is when you want to touch a real file system, you want the semantics of that and it's the only case where you really want a file-system.
    * Luke: we have these three uses of a file-system that we need to support
    * Bailey: Sometimes you have a web-app with it's own assets that you want bundled into it, but you don't need to access from the code. Is the registry we're talking about involved in hosting those assets?
    * Luke: Let's say you're making a container today, would you have bundled those assets inside the container?
    * Bailey: yes, but it may not be correct
    * Luke: If it wouldn't be included in a container, it shouldn't really be in the component.
    * Lann: One thing about data segments is they are required by the semantics of Wasm to be available to the runtime.
    * Luke: If you have a data segment, then you can read from it by using a load. However, drop can be used to signal that you're giving up your right to that. In a long-lived service you're going to keep the bytes around between them.
    * Luke: If you only need a handle so that you can refer to them and say "return this for me" then you don't need the bytes yourself. That seems like a wasi domain interface.
    * Bailey: Abstractly, aggregate storage of loosely defined binary data that needs to be distributed in different ways. Maybe you have a wasm in the backend, wasm on the frontend, web fonts, svgs, ... other static assets. Some should be served by the CDN and different pieces.
    * Lann: For the purpose of my question, there's a way to do this in modules in a registry which works for my question
