## August 31st - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Robin Brown, Nathaniel McCallum, Luke Wagner, Peter Huene, Lann Martin, Roman Volosatovs, Brian Hardock, Nicholas Farshidmehr, jlbirch
| Note Taker | Robin Brown

### Agenda

- [Luke] - In registry mirroring/curating scenarios, do we *always* want to maintain the exact fully-qualified dependencies as the original, or are there any use cases for wiring them up differently in the downstream registry?
    - Luke: When I have a package published in one registry that depends on a package in another registry, it seems like the default would be that that reference refers to the original registry/name. With mirroring, if I mirrored some other registry, I would store a copy of its contents.
    - Luke: Are there ever cases where a package wants to refer to something using a "relative name" that isn't scoped to a fixed registry?
    - Lann: That kind of functionality is out of scope for the registry, local packaging tooling could swap out a dependency. But for the registry to do this would undermine guarantees we're putting effort to prevent the registry to do so.
    - Robin: ... 
    - Luke: This all makes sense
    - Nathaniel: Another way to express this is that we've been talking about "clients" and we need to talk about "developers" and "deployers". We have a package registry in Rust that is highly dynamic with few guarantees. So we pull down a bunch of stuff, hope its good, verify whatever, and then lock it down in a lock file with dependency hashes. Hopefully the deployer only deploys from the lock file. In the case of a registry. With a verifiable registry, the developer can pull down a bunch of stuff and the lock file just identifies a registry state and everything else is implied by that root. You don't need a separate lock because everything is reproducible.
    - Luke: I was thinking this is the usual case, are there exceptions though? or is this a guarantee. For a given dependency, am I including the registry identifier (e.g. domain name) in that binding.
    - Nathaniel: The question of whether cross-registry dependency is possible has not been settled
    - Lann: This use case would be solved by forking and having new maintainers sign this new package, that you then swap in.
    - Lann: A big-ish team that wants to track upstream dependencies but needs to carry patches. You could fork that package while carrying patches.
    - Luke: NPM Link is popular. It allows you to resolve locally with some substitution.
    - Lann: I think that actually even sym-links in the substitue
    - Luke: I can imagine solving this locally, I just wanted to make sure that was the plan
    - Lann: There is an open question of whether dependency specification is name/version or hash-based with another lockfile behind that. To some sense that's out of scope, but very important for local tooling story.
    - Luke: I could use a content identifier and if I verify/trust hte log, I can determine the content hash. I could obviously put it inline to be more paranoid.
    - Lann: That would open you up to potential transient attacks. 
    - Nathaniel: Is this also true for "deployers"?
    - Luke: It's a b
    - Nathaniel: The developer is an important user, but if a registry was vulnerable when the developer updated, they would get these false resolutions if the registry were lying. That could be backed into a deployment, but with the requirement that the developer accepted it
    - Lann: You should be limited to the damage a deployer could do locally. You could write a system where your component has arbitrary disk access. That's a major issue today with supply-chain vulns. developer machines get compromised by these malicious packages ignoring deployment. It's quite bad for even a developer machine to be compromised.
- [Follow Up] Are cross registry dependencies allowed?
    - Luke: Is there a meaningful difference between pointing to a package in my registry vs. another?
    - Lann: That depends on the intersection between mirroring and remote references. The main question at hte high-level design, is the implications of trust when using an external registry. You implicitly (to some limited extent) trust your primary registry. There is some degree of trust (that you verify) that you have in that, and when you have remote dependencies (if remote means, you're leaving hte initial trust domain) then you're expanding your trust in the universe, potentially surprisingly.
    - Nathaniel: There's also the old wine and sewage analogy. What happens in this situation is that you get the trustability of the least trustworthy registry in this web, which is a way to rapidly decrease trust.
    - Robin: Operator policy allows you to limit what links are possible.
    - Nthaniel: Registries don't build on each other, they centralize on one main one to keep quality high.
    - Lann: At the protocol level, I don't think there's anything wrong with allowing cross-registry dependencies. The policy level could handle this as Robin is saying. The BA registry may want to do this for example.
    - Luke: A theoretical Fastly registry may allow only the BA registry to be remote-linked.
    - Nathaniel: The developer is not really trusting the Fastly and BA registry, they are trusting the Fastly registry and transitively through it's trust of BA registry, trusting it. Fastly needs.
    - Robin: ...
    - Nathaniel: With transitive trust, we want to encourage behavior with good cyclic properties. We want to encourage developers to opt-in to trusting one registry and have that registry manage trust in other registries for them.
    - Luke: Separation of development and deployment registries. That deployment registry needs to be the things that's super up. When you deploy the transitive dependencies need to be fully mirrored. BA should only be quiried at development time. We have hashes that lock things, but the mirroring only happens when you do a deployment.
    - Nathaniel: If there is a lock file that locks down the contents, then the only thing that matters about what registry you talk to is Confidentiality and Availability.
    - Luke: I want that availability and some of that confidentially. Maybe "Fastly" is fetching a lot, but they don't know that Luke is doing so. I want the.
    - Luke: A deployment registry will be a very different kind of registry. I don't know if these are different implementations or one with different compile flags. It's 
    - Taylor: You may want to proxy things straigh to the Bytecode Alliance, but have things where 
    - Nathaniel: I think we can support both of them and should. One way we can talk about this is the "correlation" between the different registry logs. The question is "where do those logs get correlated?". The answer has to be before you prepare the content for deployment and locks everything down and resolves everything. The pass-through defers the locking down, the mirroring does it eagerly.
    - Luke: Do you mean associating roots for both regsitries when you say lock?
    - Nathaniel: I need to associate every registry in my dependency graph together. I can just assert the heads of all the logs, which makes resolution deterministic. If one log wants to sync with another, then I can derive a head of one log from another. I think we should enable both and it's worth stating that developer->deployer you need to lock them down.
    - Luke: I'll note in my EBNF diagram, my depth-solve involved taking in parameters that produced the content hashes. You can verify that the depth-solve produced these.
    - Lann: Not to derail too much, but you could provide a content hash for the component that performed the depth-solve
    - Luke: We can spec out the depth solve, but that characteristic is super interesting.
    - Lann: Signing the component lets you verify your implementation in addition to your spec
    - Nathaniel: nothing is perfectly reproducible

