## February 16th - SIG Registries meeting

### Agenda

- updates on the Bytecode Alliance, the Technical Steering Committee, and the SIG process

- Till: the case for and implications of self-contained components
- user stories for the registry MVP — https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QV0iXQBEqnE9CtNAhwH-oD7PBRnfeREj2nWZmw_zO8M/edit

### (Incomplete) notes
Till: I want to explain why I made some of the statements from last week.
Last week, we talked about a few things that could be part of a package, in addition to a Wasm component, and I want to try to explain the view I have on this.
Basically, anything a component needs to run successfully (in all scenarios) should be made explicit in its contract, in its interface, and anything not made explicit in this interface (but implicitly expected, but then not available) should make it fail in all environments, not just some of them.

A different scenario here — environment variables.  Used for configuration, or (suboptimally) secret sharing. In WASI you can use getenv, while in Wasmtime you supply them similarly to preopen. What we don’t have in WASI is defining the environment variables expected. So a call to getenv might or might not succeed. To us, one of the design goal of a component is to avoid this kind of situation.
One way to make this work is for getenv to only work with environment variables you declare as an import. This gives us this property that the result of getenv is predictable (if the component doesn’t explicitly require it, getenv will fail). We want to prevent the scenario where the application works well in testing, but it hits this error condition on a cold path where you try to get an env you didn’t set.
The cool thing components can give us is full static analysis of whether I can schedule a component to run in a given context.

To talk about how it relates to static assets — whatever static assets a component needs, they should be made explicit. That could be a manifest, or it could be the component itself. We think we can provide great tooling.

Either we don’t agree this is a design goal and we need to figure out what to do, or, if we care, we should define a user story that captures the vital parts of this requirement.


Ralph: When I think about it, there are a whole category of “components” that cannot be inserted into a registry that constricts itself on strict strong-typing of objects. What my concern is what this will result in. First, the registry service could only accept a certain type, and other assets will have to be stored somewhere else. The other way of looking at this, there are two types of components. The registry could store both, or the registry implementation could store both. It’s possible that Bindle could be limited in scope to either component type, but the service itself has another type available.
And so, I love the objective, I wonder where the boundaries of this lie. I want to enable it, the real question is exactly how it’s enabled in the distribution contract, or in the service.

Till: we have no interest in introducing the type system to restrict what you want to import. If an interface author chooses to use base64 encoding for data, or a binary stream, this would be “strongly-typed”. One thing Ralph and I talked about, a theoretical thing we could consider, profiles published to the registry undergo some human review process, under the assumption that profiles should be fewer than components, so we would have something along the lines of components targeting runtime environments targeted by the profiles, so there would be some notion of QC of the types exposed.
This might or might not be interesting, but while it is true that the type system can only give us some kind of information, there is a difference between “treating everything as a string” and the getenv or static assets scenario. That string is still meant to be part of the explicit interface

To give an example of something that can be analogous to the getenv thing, a K/V store could be seen as the same thing,
