## February 23rd - SIG Registries meeting

### Agenda

- updates on the Bytecode Alliance, the Technical Steering Committee, and the SIG process
- FYI: unified Component Model PR up in [component-model/#6](https://github.com/WebAssembly/component-model/pull/6)
    - module linking and interface types are now in one proposal.
- static assets and the Wasm registry package format
    - Till: we have consensus on the goals behind the self-contained, but we should talk about the format
    - Luke: after our conversation two weeks ago, I had an idea.
    - Luke: semantically, we want this thing to be self-contained, ideally described by a single spec. A potential solution would be — in the component model, there are two formats - a binary and a text format. Once I have the AST, the execution and validation are shared between the two formats. So what if we had a third format, which would describe  how to take a bindle.
    - Matt: that would be a workable way of doing things
    - Luke:
    - Matt: it feels like the hang-up was over how big our binaries were, and not the feature set to be. We are aligned on the feature set.
    - Luke: I can have a single Wasm
    - Brian: I have a component I'm building and I want to push it. Would the output of Wact tooling generate a Bindle file?
    - Luke: the tooling can produce whatever format it needs, and I can switch formats at any given time. As long as we are very careful to restrict this to a subset of bindles, it should be isomorphic.
    - Luke: core Wasm modules can contain data segments, but cannot import or export them. When I explode a Wasm module into a Bindle, it can have a relative import
- user stories for the registry MVP — https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QV0iXQBEqnE9CtNAhwH-oD7PBRnfeREj2nWZmw_zO8M/edit
    - namespacing: we have consensus
    - Till: N (statically analyzing): we talked about it last week, it seems like we have consensus on this being a goal.
    - Ralph: if we implement it correctly, this is possible. I don't believe demostrating it needs to be part of the MVP. How do you feel about that? I would like the conversations we've had about the possibilities we think could emerge here to be possible.
    - Matt: is there a way of framing an MVP requirement such that we don't throw away the requirement entirely? Is there a weaker version we would feel comfortable committing to?
    - Till: To me, it seems like this is not a well-defined concept in isolation.
    - Ralph: I want to avoid having to define all strongly-typed things, but I d
    - Radu: does this boil down to verifying interfaces and static files?
    - Till: this might be more about positioning
    - Brian: is the user story an API, or something else?
    - Ralph: I thought there would be an API that a tool could use, but we wouldn;t have to write the tool as part of the MVP.
    - Till: this sounds more like a positioning aspect.


    - deleting / yanking
        - Matt: as an operator of the registry, I need to be able to delete entries for reasons like legal violations. The second one, as a user, I want to mark a package as yanked so that people know they shouldn't use it, but yanking would leave the package available to users who explicitly agree to pull a yanked package. There is an argument that there shouldn't be any yanking.
        - Till: to me, having yanking is valuable (deleting the only version disrupts things significantly). As for an MVP, is yanking a significant amount of effort?
        - consensus for deleting
        - Till: yanking seems something we can put an asterisk on. It doesn't _need_ to be part of the MVP.

    - auditing licenses
        - Matt: as a user, I can easily audit the licenses that are attached to the components I'm pulling from the registry. Licensing audits are routine for enterprise use cases. Given we are largely in the sitiation of deploying binary files, it would be a good idea to have a way of making sure licenses are discoverable.
        - "As a user, I can discover the license of any given component."
        - Luke: as an operator, would I need to know about the union of all licenses used?
        - Matt: that would be a great use case.
        - Radu: should it be part of the MVP though?
        - Till: this is what SPDX tries to do. The downside is there are situations where their database doesn't have a license you want to use. For a while, they didn;t have Av2+LLVM, which was annoying.
        - consensus on R and S.
