## August 10th - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Peter Huene, Lann Martin, Radu Matei, Robin Brown, Brian Hardock, Johnnie Birch, Taylor Thomas, Ralph Squillace, Bailey Hayes, Nathaniel McCallum, George Kulakowski,
| Note Taker | Robin Brown and Bailey Hayes

### Agenda

- [Lann] Should packages be namespaced by their registry?
  - If so, how should registries be identified?
  - Lann: As we discuss log semantics, mirroring comes up. There's interest in replicating packages from another registry into your own.
  - Lann: So, how should we resolve conflicts between packages?
  - Lann: Namespaces? Canonical name of package could include identifier (e.g. domain name) for registry
  - Lann: Should and how should packages be namespaced by registry?
  - Taylor: There's some desire to have a global thing, but there will always be people who need to host internal things. Domains could handle that. If I'm going to mirror a copy, there needs to be some way of knowing where it came from. Maybe that's contained within the log? When it arrives you could sign it and add it to your registry?
  - Bailey: A user story for us was "internally releasing a version first to your registry before it ends up in a public one" we should consider supporting this as a defined user story
  - Robin: Distinction between mirroring and multi-homing
  - Lann: There's a distinction to be made between mirroring so that it's never modified and forking
  - Nathaniel: We've been discussing append-only logs and hte possibility of implementing each registry as an append-only log of logs. Namespacing by the domain name of the mirror would allow us to take a reference to that other log, mirror it locally
  - Ralph: Active work item that I'm interested in is that "mirroring" is slightly different from other behaviors. Usually what we really mean is we want some subset where identical stuff is copied and where we can verify and compare that and be certain. It doesn't really matter what it's stored like in the mirrored location as long as it can be verified as an artifact tree. If something is mirrored, does it need to be namespaced when it has been mirrored? or is that something that the mirroring actor can choose how its handled?
  - Lann: What if you have something internally that collides with something that exists or comes to exist elsewhere?
  - Ralph: If you use something "upstream" in the canonical tree have you been overlooking it and that's your problem? or is it something we s hould not enable?
  - Ralph: I'm asking to determine if it's something we need to take on. We need the behavior, but what's the use case for the registry enforcing this or the mirroring actor choosing that
  - Taylor: I like focusing on the user stories like inside-out and outside-in. Having worked at megacorps, there's some idea of packages being blessed and things needing to be present in some internal source. So for this, I imagine something similar where you want to pull something in and say it's been blessed.
  - Ralph: That outside-in user story is top of mind, if a developer inside microsoft is using something that will collide with an outside name we just tell them not to use that name. We need SBOM+container contents to be able to pass around and identify regardless of where it came from. That should be trivial in the world we're imagining. 
  - Ralph: The interesting thing different between my scenario megacorp X. We've built the system so it can be compared really quickly. Tha patching scenario is where you make a modification to a thing you brought in and you could add that to a log so it's unified. I'm trying to figure out but the unification of that isn't super important, the ability to read through it and connect the metadata is not a high order bit. But it has to live somewhere.
  - Taylor: Outside in case: a lot of us will be running different services that consume these artifacts. There are components that we build for our system that our customers will use. A cache of sorts that we want mirrored closer to our customers. This is slightly different from Blessed.
  - Bailey: More big corp cases… Do we need to support a bless process like with a hook? For example we first had a security scan on the external repo, then it would be mirrored into artifactory
  - Robin: One of the ideas here, going back to the idea of namespacing. Wouldn't it be a lot nicer if there was a distinction of where something lives? Is it mine or is theirs? Replicate or fork. This would let us get a unique canonical way of linking these pieces together.
  - Ralph: Mega corp perspective - will never in the future run on external deps and will always mirror and/or replicate it in someway. We will not depend on network or flakey paths. We'll never necessarily trust attestations, we'll replicate those in. Small orgs will need the agility to reference any number of registries. These users will need to use the registry to trust the artifacts that they are using. Really two desires there.
  - Nathaniel: Let’s use the terms mirror/fork for these. We've previously talked about annotations. Mirror/cache locally but only some of the stuff, but now that I'm mirroring only some of the stuff is cached. 3 different workflows. 4 if you count forking. 
  - Ralph: We have different ideas of what we think blessed means. Small business might get it, verify the sig, and that's it. Mega corp says its not blessed until full fuzz, CVE tree, and not until we've added attestation to say that this is effin blessed so the approval for blessed will definitely vary by user.
  - Taylor: Should we pop this off as a separate discussion? OG this was just answering the question around namespacing. Think that having a namespace is important to have. We're good with having a namespacing thing, what serves all of these needs and relationships? To continue in GH discussion.
  - Robin: Namespaces are good, what do people think generally about registry domain name namespacing. 
  - Lann: That might be policy based. BA might have theirs run by domain name. Policy decision because registries are not going to automatically mirror each other its always going to be a choice to mirror an external registry.
  - Robin: Another question - is it use case to have cross-registry dependency?
  - Lann: If you have package registry based by namespacing, you can always mirror dependency.
  - Robin: Easiest way is to assign registry a name.
  - Nathaniel: Concerned about fragility of cross-registry dependencies. If registry goes down, could take down other registries.
  - Ralph: Is there a resolution req for the canonical (bytecodealliance.org) - love Robin's stuff, but not that one stupid package. Use it all the time and I have ba.org namespace pointer and as the canonical source. Is there requirement that gets resolved at runtime? If there is a req to verify and something goes down, what do you do?
  - Robin: If another registry you're using has cached, then they can serve you those contents on behalf of the other registry. 
  - Nathaniel: Separation between the package data, and contents of the package data. Both the package metadata and the contents
  - Robin: If you wanted you could mirror the entire registry
  - Ralph: On one hand a mega-corp would be happy to do that and serve it all locally. On the other hand, the customers will not be interested in any way without validating everything it says it is without validating with the canonical. The interesting thing in this scenario, is that the real value is the real statement on the behalf of the mirroring registry on behalf of the consumers.
  - Nathaniel: If we mirroring bob, alice will have to copy all of the contents and all of the append only logs. Package metadata includes append only logs. 
- [Lann] Should a package name be immutably tied to a single log? I.e. can a named package's history be "reset"?
    - Example 1: If a package is removed for copyright infringement, can that package be removed and replaced with a package with different history?
    - Robin: package names should not be resettable. They should be immutable. The log you get, you're stuck with it forever. Doesn't mean it doesn't change owners. Maybe you're not stuck with that log forever, but we want that package's contents to be immutable
    - Nathaniel: versions within themselves are a namespace in a namespace. The party that owns the names owns the registry. The registry is the part that grants renames. In the registry log, it would contain reference to the particular log that is moving. Registry can do a take-down. I've discontinued the use of package foo. The historical record of foo's log is in the registry's log. In this case the registry has removed package foo. No longer served. The contents no longer are served but they are still there.
    - Lann: Too difficult to maintain the invariant that you have to lookthru old logs to find moves
    - Nathaniel: Once you have released within a particular package, it can never be re-released/modified. Reset foo. One could issue a new chain. Version numbers are only comparable within a particular package log.
    - Lann: Impact on a user for getting from particular labels.
    - Nathaniel: Hashes of any of its events. I want package foo 1.2.3 with this trust anchor hash. You will always get that chain so if you specify no trust anchor, then one would be provided by the software. BA for example would be provided. If you're concerned about the world reset problem you could use the trust anchor from a package. 
    - Robin: Your package includes cryptographic information that you can use to verify
    - Nathaniel: The idea is that if I have a client and I have things to download from the web, perhaps BA has its own entry in a log, then it could use that as the trust-anchor for the first. Everything is well-defined from the beginning. Well known registries and then other trust-registries that you can always use for trust.
    - Ralph: One of the most frustrating aspects of git usage is renaming and having the history follow. The way that we're approaching it right now, this is essentially the functionality that you can reset the directionality of a certain log from a point, but what has pased before including the previous name, no matter the vector that you've chosen to move on. Don't effin change even if the name changed. So how do you do that?
    - Robin: for renaming, top-level structure, or log, that might give you the tools to better handle renaming.
    - Nathaniel: I think we can have a good user experience here. If you are referring to a package in a given registry and that registry is a well known registry, you don't have to specify more trust for that registry. For more unknown, you have to be prompted, do you trust this registry? If yes, then downloaded. Nothing will magically happen in a way that is unsettling.
    - Ralph: That is really cool. Ability to grab and trust subtrees is going to be more critical. If we build something that you have to replicate the entire log, that's a fail.
    - Robin: Part of a log is enough to be acceptable.
    - Ralph: Precisely the log that is relative to the mirror - something about being old - we want to encourage mirroring, the only way we can do that if the log and other aspects are subsettable. If we do that, then the mirroring will not be destructive to the entire ecosystem. If we fail at that, there will be centralization. We want the ability for 2-3 people working as an independent group be able to run this.
    - Nathaniel: Yes we're looking at this. Any event that occur regularly, the spinal column log, the registry log that contains the global state of everything. That should be infrequent events, like new package was registred. Crates.io has a ton. So we're easily looking at >1M. Demoed Jose impl with couple mil to make sure we can support and plan for that case.
- [Robin] Quick overview of changes to proposal to remove roles
    - Small changes
    - Roles are no longer a thing
    - There's allow and deny. Ability to create and publish.
    - Assigned simple names. 
    - Update auth means giving use to the privilege types or removing them.
    - Some things that needed to change to make that work.
    - Anyone can do the initial entry. 
    - Now the initial entry, now that granting admin, it means updating auth role. That let's you bootstrap everything you need authorization wise.
    - Looking at and poking Nathaniel, for moving things into the header.
    - Intrigued about taking what we have now and pushing that into content fields. 
    - Take a look at the discussions and review those. Make sure these are going in the right direction.
