## Sept. 21st - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      |
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Lann Martin, Roman Volosatovs, Kyle Brown, Bailey Hayes, Peter Huene, Johnnie Birch, Luke Wagner
| Note Taker | Lann Martin

### Agenda

- [Kyle] Component Dependency Representation
  - Kyle: We've talked about the registry structure having an append-only log; we've skipped over where dependency information lives; in the component? some external structure? Open question for discussion. Some options: log could have dependency information, component could have dependency information, it could be in something that wraps the component
  - Luke: first question: Is it valuable for dependencies to be in the log? 
  - Kyle: if dependencies are in the log, it makes dep solve easier; don't have to parse a component to get transitive dependency information.
  - Luke: are dependencies implied by the content hash of the package? or are they metadata?
  - Kyle: digest needs to uniquely identify dependencies; part of the "lock". If dependencies are "inside" a component, there is a question of URLs, etc. If they are outside, you could have a sort "dependency injection" view of the whole system.
  - Lann: what do we mean by "dependency"? a concrete artifact? a package with version constraints? an interface?
  - Kyle: there is a matrix of possible answers; a component could depend on a module directly, an interface and separately could depend on specific versions or a version range
  - Luke: the graph is not a "full clique" of who can point at who. For interfaces it may not make sense to depend on a version range; you pick the version you need.
  - Kyle: for a component depending on a component, does it have know the type to depend on it.
  - Luke: if you are "pre-depsolve", everyone who can share a version wants to. After depsolve, a "locked" component imports specific component versions.
  - Kyle: there is some interest in "pre-locked" and "locked" components to have the same digest.
  - Luke: the trick is, we aren't modifying a component when we lock it, we are making a copy of it with extra information.
  - Kyle: in that case, you are aggregating existing things into a new thing and then signing that new thing. What does this new thing look like?
  - Peter: we're describing what the wasm-compose tool does: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasm-tools/tree/main/crates/wasm-compose
  - Luke: in a future state, rather than having to bundle components, the tool could have a cache of components to draw on.
    - Locked component example (old; syntax may be stale): https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11lY9GBghZJ5nCFrf4MKWVrecQude0xy_buE--tnO9kQ/edit#slide=id.gf00ed6582c_0_0
  - Kyle: want to ask about import URL syntax
  - Kyle: Question about "query URL": with the current log-based registry design, you don't just fetch a package, there is a more complex validation process.
  - Various people, back-and-forth: URL vs URI, semantics of a dependency URL, what to do with dependency URLs wrt mirroring, `warg:` scheme, is the "origin" registry part of the package namespace
  - Luke: I would like the URLs to work a browser with import maps; the component has a "pre-depsolve" URL, and the import map maps that to a specific "post-depsolve" package
  - Luke: The root component gets to choose how all dependencies are linked
  - Kyle: do we need "library" vs "binary" packages like cargo?
  - AI: Kyle to create a GH discussion
    
- [Kyle & Bailey] KubeCon
  - There will be a talk at Wasm Day, what do we want to talk about?
  - Should we publish repositories?
  - Do we need any patent coverage? Trademarks?
  - AI: Kyle to create a GH discussion
  
- [Kyle] CBOR?
  - There had been an agreement to use JOSE, but after some system design / napkin math, we might not want something more compact than JOSE's formats.
  - Bailey: I would like to retract my previous recommendation for CBOR; it makes schema migration hard.
