## Apr 12, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Kyle Brown, Calvin Prewitt, Roman Volosatovs, Brian Hardock, Timmy Silesmo, Danny Macovei
| Note Taker | 

* [Kyle] - Vote on [Propose: Unifying registry meetings and repositories](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/SIG-Registries/discussions/49)
    * Vote passed
* Updates
    * Peter Huene - Cargo Component has Registry Support now, started work on database layer for registry
    * Danny Macovei - Created [PR](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/pull/93) for compiling protocol crate to Wasm
    * Roman Volosatovs - [wit-deps](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wit-deps) donated to Bytecode Alliance
* [Kyle] - Interim tooling discussion
* WIT to Binary transition and tooling
* [Danny] - How does a component say it doesn't care what implementation is used for some interface?
    * Luke: That's the difference between importing an instance which says that you don't care how something is implemented, and importing a component which asks for a specific implementation and requires you to instantiate it and supply its imports
    * Peter: From the perspective of the producing toolchains, the output of those dependencies on other components are instance imports with essentially "hints" of which version you want.
    * Peter: Wasm compose and other tooling are responsible for resolving these instance imports down to component imports and component definitions inline.
    * Roman: Wasm encoding, is it deterministic? If I run the same input will I always get the same output?
    * Luke: Wat-to-Wasm is deterministic. Wit-to-Wasm should be. Given the same inputs, you should get the same type. Maybe the order of lists of imports could depend on file-enumeration ordering and should vary.
    * Peter: I don't think there's anything that makes it unstable. The tooling that makes these wit packages can be made to be stable. In places like wasm compose where we compose them together, there's a lot of due-diligence to produce the same binary.
    * Roman: With some lexicographic ordering that is enforced by the tooling?
    * Peter: Wit parser has its own resolution of names rules, and the binary encoding doesn't have a strict ordering rule. You can re-order things quite easily. The producing tooling of these things should be as stable as they can be.
    * Roman: I ran into this when I saved hashes for wit-deps would not always match unless I sorted the input
