## May 3, 2023 - SIG Registries meeting

|          |      | 
| -------- | -------- |
| Attending  | Calvin Prewitt, Kyle Brown, Kristopher Wuollett, Brian Hardock, Timmy Silesmo, Peter Huene, Danny Macovei
| Note Taker | 

* Updates
    * Peter: Merged DB PR, created an [OpenAPI draft PR](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/pull/101). Think of it as a starting point.
* [Kristopher] - API DevEx: multi-platform, versioning and code generation -- proof of concept: [bytecodealliance/registry#100](https://github.com/bytecodealliance/registry/pull/100)
* [Danny] - Dogfood Content Storage
    * Danny: Starting from the question what else needs to be done to start dogfooding. Peter's PR is great progress towards that, Kristopher's PR could be useful for that but might not be a hard requirement. The content store situation looks like it might need to change before we deploy it.
    * Peter: Since this is a low-throughput dogfood service, it might be good enough to attach some network-backed storage to that.
    * Danny: Should we start trying to deploy it?
    * Peter: The API is not well secured and you can upload whatever you want and we'll store it. Things like this at the API level need to be worked out including for policies. e.g. making sure you're only uploading components, making sure your key is allowed to create a certain package.
    * 
    * Kristopher: You can make a storage provider for Postgres to beta test.
    * Danny: I think I mostly brought it up as something that would block us from deploying this as a dogfood service.
    * Danny: I wonder if some of the things Peter mentioned like Policy and scanning need to be done before the dogfood deployment.
* [Calvin] - Namespace alias implementation options
    * Calvin: For shortening e.g. bytecodealliance.org to `ba` or WASI to `wasi`, does that alias need to live in the registry level or as an alias in the wit file or local dev mapping? I get the user experience aspect, it's just about where to implement that.
    * Luke: People are talking about namespacing in WIT and there are some changes needed. For wits aimed at being published, you want to specify the ID that is a string that goes in the component and be an identifier. It's related to registries but not dependent on it. WASI should be able to define an id like `wasi:...` but you could also have a registry that defines a namespace `wasi` that lines up with it. A registry can be a real public place where you can have the good dev ex that wasi has without being a standard. Registries can't gurantee globally that I'm the only one that has this name and it can't/wouldn't rely on domain names. `ba` is a namespace that the bytecode alliance defines it and other registries that import it would pull in that definition and have to agree with it. conflicting names get to exist as long as they aren't pulled into the same registry. These things are decoupled from DNS names. If I want to query something I need its domain not to identify it but to query against it. The DNS and namespace would be different. There's more WIT tooling work to be done and hopefully that makes it clear when I'm writing wit what I'm claiming to define and when I publish a package to a registry the registry should only validate if the registry defines the namespace you're using. This can ensure that things are published where they say there name is.
    * Guy: Taking this idea from Blue Sky as a parallel. For namespacing there's this question about type information. The name is just a human thing that helps you wire things together. Because we have such a good type system you can plug anything into a spot intended for something else. There are questions abount compatibility and versioning but from a pure programming perspective you don't need namespaces. What is the namespace achieving?
    * Luke: Registry validation criteria can ensure that when you define a name, a registry can tell if I actually am that name. There is some internal consistency here and we need to understand the same thing.
    * Peter: There also needs to be ways to inspect a component for its dependencies so that we can build tooling around this that pulls dependencies down and links things down for you. This ID will be part of the system that pulls/links things for you. As a question to Luke, we still have URLs in extern definitions is there an understanding of what needs to be locked down here?
    * Luke: We started with URL but we realized there is something different from what we want from a Domain Name System. If I'm running this in the browser I may want to fetch things and that's a place for a URL. But for other use cases you want an ID like `wasi:http...`. So we need a way to distinguish these cases that separately treat ids of interfaces which is a simple name + major/minor versions. The name could be namespace + package name and identify an interface. If we're identifying an implementation there are things we want like patch versions (warg ids could go there, URLs can go there, things that express queries could...).
    * Calvin: If I could restate to make sure I'm capturing everything. For registries we need a way to define what name maps to a registry and a ...
    * Luke: At the top level of a registry there's state that identifies what namespace(s) I'm defining and what namespaces I'm bringing in. A validation rule would be that all components/exports/imports only use these names. When I have an import of another registry is it a live url, do we capture state about the last thing I saw?
    * Luke: For component and interface packages, I can't see anywhere I would need a domain name.
    * Kyle: *agrees*
    * Luke: For content published in registries, there are no URLs in the content which is part of what makes them mirrorable.
    * Calvin: If you're mirroring a registry you would have to mirror it's table of aliases right?
    * Luke: Ya, you'd want to preserve the dependency relationship. If I mirror content, I need to mirror the structure of its dependencies.
    * ...
    * Calvin: Is the primary reason for aliasing that we don't want to use a URL?
    * Luke: I don't want wasi to be able to cheat by being special. Everyone who has their own registry should be able to give them names. Because they're not URLs, you won't fetch them. You don't really want to run servers that correspond to those URLs because some people are treating them as URLs. It's tempting to treat things as URLs that are identifiers, but there's some history from XML era about why not to do this. If I send a module to a browser with a URL it will fetch it, and I think what we want for these is that nobody is live fetching these.
    * Luke: If I have a mirror for my local development or for my company, I may want to publish something locally to that mirror. Before it gets upstreamed, I want to publish something to this package myself. This is related to NPM link and I want to do this without creating a new package name. I can imagine publishing "fake" entries but as soon as the original upstream it would conflict.
    * Luke: When I try to imagine a solution, it's something like a mirror log that's layered on top of the original log and some kind of second log would be necessary to do local modifications and update them over time. People are going to need to do that.
