# April 29 SIG-Embedded Meeting
## Asia Pacific and US Timzone meeting
**8am China, 8pm US East Coast *$*, 7pm US Central *$*, 5pm US Pacific *$*, 2am Central European Time**
**NB:** *$* - Due to the international date line, 8am on Tuesday, is late Monday evening in the USA

**See the [instructions](../README.md) for details on how to attend**

## Agenda

1. Opening, welcome and roll call
1. Announce that the meeting will be recorded and hit record as agreed upon in inaugural meeting. 
1. Announcements
    1. _Submit a PR to add your announcement here_
1. Other agenda items
    1. _Submit a PR to add your item here_

## Attendees

* Chris Woods
* David Bryant
* Luke Wagner
* Liang

## Notes

### Meeting Synopsis

This meeting had only 4 attendees and with no pre-requested agenda items it concluded in under 20 mins. Chris provided a brief recap on the last SIG meeting, and pointed out the outstanding item he has to create an MoU between the participating organizations in the LTS project. The conversation then moved on to how to help Collins and other companies add new APIs to the LTS project, while still keeping them forward compatible with the WIT based P2+ world.

### Meeting Details

Following the recap from the last E-SIG meeting, the only other major item for discussion was how folks could add APIs to the LTS version to meet the short term need, while still allowing them to be adapted and used in the P2+ Component Model enabled future version. This is an issue that will be faced by Collins as they requested support during the last E-SIG meeting. In a discussion between Chris and Luke, following guidance was suggested:

* Continue to work as preview one does and write the APIs using core-wasm techniques
* Consider the WIT structures and have in mind a method of translating the new APIs to WIT for future versions
* This should be reviewed for feedback by the community, and Luke has offered his time
* Chris pointed out that this should be captured in a small document, perhaps two paragraphs which can be shared with Collins and others on how to contribute.
* Luke agreed, Chris took the action item to create the initial document and Luke offered to review it
* Chris and Luke discussed the overlap between Collins request and the work already conducted by Merlyn.
* Chris took the action items to put the to parties in touch, and to respond to Collins Aerospace.

## Action Items

* [ ] Chris to create a guide to contributing new APIs to LTS, Luke to review
* [ ] Chris: Get back to Collins Aerospace with advice and pointer to document
* [ ] Chris: Reach out to Merlyn and Collins Aerospace teams - put them in touch
