# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** February 17, 2026  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Oscar Spencer  
Bailey Hayes  
Till Schneidereit  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics and providing an update at the next Alliance board meeting.

### Topic #2
TSC members collaborated in finalizing the agenda for next week's Plumbers Summit, confirming presenters and topics and reviewing proposed Birds of a Feather sessions. David will publish the agenda on the event's Zulip topic and in the Alliance meetings repository.

### Topic #3
David provided an Elected Delegate special election update. Nominees were announced to Recognized Contributors on February 13 as planned. Polling opened on February 16 and continues through March 6 with voting and CIVS registration reminders along the way to encourage participation.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 10:53am PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting