# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** Jun 9, 2026  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Bailey Hayes  
Oscar Spencer  
Christof Petig  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC, ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics and providing an update at the next Alliance board meeting. @martindevans was approved as the newest Bytecode Alliance Recognized Contributor.

### Topic #2
David provided an update on operational topics. A website announcing our WACE2026 academic workshop is now [live](https://bytecodealliance.org/wace2026), and includes details for submitting paper proposals. Christof reported he was successful hosting today's SIG-Embedded meeting as interim chair.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 10:27am PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting