# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** Jun 23, 2026  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Bailey Hayes  
Till Schneidereit  
Christof Petig  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon. There was no in-person TSC meeting on June 16 due to member travel and limited availability, with business conducted online.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, recognition of project maintainers, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC, ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics and providing an update at the next Alliance board meeting. The meeting to review the WAMR project's updated security plan and roadmap has been scheduled for June 29.

### Topic #2
David provided an update on operational topics. After discussion, the TSC decided it no longer needed to maintain a GitHub team to identify BA Recognized Contributors given other more useful mechanisms and public listings have been put in place. A meeting is being arranged with Conrad Watt to catch up on current W3C Community Group status and plans.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 10:31am PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting