# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** February 3, 2026  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Oscar Spencer  
Bailey Hayes  
Till Schneidereit  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics and providing an update at the next Alliance board meeting.

### Topic #2
The next Bytecode Alliance Plumbers Summit working meeting will be February 25 and 26, 2026, organized as an all-online event in three hour sessions each day. Event details were discussed to enable creation of event announcements, confirmation of presenters, and handling of overall logistics. Preparations continue apace, with public announcement of the event expected in the next few days.

### Topic #3
David highlighted that the special election process call for nominations continues through Monday, February 9 and encouraged TSC members to continue speaking with interested individuals about the opportunity.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 11:02am PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting