# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** January 13, 2026  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Till Schneidereit  
Bailey Hayes  
Oscar Spencer  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon. As a note, there were no TSC meetings on December 23 and 30 due to holiday schedules and member availability.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics. Work and project support efforts continue with WAMR project maintainers though ongoing email conversation and document reviews.   

### Topic #2
Bailey summarized her initial assessment of the effort and impact of BA compliance with the European Union Cyber Resiliency Act (CRA), which goes into effect on December 11, 2027. Significant adjustments will be needed in BA project processes and documentation, which the TSC will plan, communicate and carry out over the coming months.

### Topic #3
TSC members discussed the process of selecting a new Elected Delegate to fill the role vacated by Andrew Brown's resignation effective January 1, 2026 and also by Oscar's having been selected as a new Member Director in the December 2025 election.

**Action:** Oscar will draft and send email to Alliance Recognized Contributors (RCs) announcing a special election for Elected Delegate, with David following up to engage RCs to organize that election over the coming weeks.

### Topic #4
Till provided an update on plans to organize a Plumbers Summit event co-located with the Wasm.io conference in Barcelona on March 19 and 20. Those efforts are aimed at hosting the meeting to enable full participation both in-person and remotely. Additional details on proposped meeting agenda and logistics will be available shortly.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 11:01am PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting