# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** March 24, 2026  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Christof Petig  
Till Schneidereit  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon. As a note, there were no TSC meetings on March 10 or March 17 due to member travel and limited availablity.

### Topic #1
Christof Petig has joined the TSC as Elected Delegate through our recent special election, and attended this as his first meeting in that role. Welcome Christof!

### Topic #2
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics and providing an update at the next Alliance board meeting.

### Topic #3
Results from the January special election for TSC Elected Delegate were announced to Recognized Contributors by email on March 13, having been confirmed by the TSC and acknowledged by the board. The newly reconstituted TSC will need to select a TSC Chair and TSC Director, but will defer those tasks until all members are present.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 10:57am PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting