# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** March 31, 2026  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Christof Petig  
Till Schneidereit  
Oscar Spencer  
Bailey Hayes  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics and providing an update at the next Alliance board meeting. A number of Security Advisories have been reported lately, many due to increased use of LLM-based tools by security researchers, and are being actively worked on by projects involved.

### Topic #2
TSC members discussed filling the TSC Director and TSC Chair roles given updated TSC membership. Till Schneidereit was nominated to serve as TSC Director, and Oscar Spencer nominated to serve as TSC Chair. Both will be introduced at this weeks's Alliance board meeting for ratification.

### Topic #3
Till proposed some improvements to use of 1-Password for managing shared credentials among BA projects and SIGs, based on recent experience making updates across projects involved. He and David will review current use and make the relevant changes.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 11:03am PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting