# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** January 20, 2026  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Till Schneidereit  
Bailey Hayes  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics. A new hosted project proposal has been received and is being reviewed. Work and project support efforts continue with WAMR project maintainers though ongoing email conversation and document reviews.   

### Topic #2
Plans for hosting a Plumbers Summit event in March were reviewed and in light of feedback from likely attendees the TSC agreed to shift the focus from a hybrid in-person and remote event co-located with Wasm.io to an entirely on-line remote event that could be scheduled independently. Further discussion yielded target dates, general plan for the agenda, and basic event logistics, all of which will be verified with projected presenters. A general update on event planning will be shared at this week's Alliance board meeting.

**Action:** David will put together a working document containing planning and communication information for the event, allowing ongoing work to converge key details such that action to approve and move forward can be taken at next week's TSC meeting.

### Topic #3
David summarized status and plans for the special election needed to fill the Elected Delegate vacancy on the TSC, now that the overall announcement of that election has gone out to Recognized Contributors.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 11:08am PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting