# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** March 3, 2026  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Bailey Hayes  
Oscar Spencer  
Till Schneidereit  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics and providing an update at the next Alliance board meeting.

### Topic #2
Recording of talks from the recent Plumbers Summit event are being prepared and should be available in the Bytecode Alliance YouTube channel later this week. A feedback form is being prepared to send to attendees soliciting feedback on this event and suggestions for future Summits.

### Topic #3
David provided an Elected Delegate special election update. Voting continues through March 6.

### Topic #4
Due to travel and limited member availability, there will be no in-person TSC meeting on March 10 or 17. Business will be conducted online as needed.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 10:42am PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting