# Meeting Minutes
## Bytecode Alliance Technical Steering Committee
**Date:** February 10, 2026  
**Time:** 10:00am PT  
**Place:** By online video conference  

**TSC Members present:**  
Oscar Spencer  
Bailey Hayes  
Till Schneidereit  

**Others present:**  
David Bryant  

### Agenda
The TSC reviewed the agenda for the meeting and a final agenda was agreed upon.

### Topic #1
The TSC reviewed current governance topics as identified across issues and pull requests in the Alliance governance and project repositories, consideration of projects for Hosted or Core Project status, Special Interest Group activities, nominations for Recognized Contributor, communications received by the TSC,  ongoing standards efforts within the W3C Community Group, topics of broad scope in the Alliance's Zulip community, and a recap of the most recent Alliance board meeting. Proper follow-up actions will be taken by reviewers on the requests and issues discussed, including scheduling meetings needed to advance active topics and providing an update at the next Alliance board meeting.

### Topic #2
The upcoming Bytecode Alliance Plumbers Summit working meeting has been announced to Recognized Contributors and Members via email that included a survey form to gather suggestions and interest in proposed agenda topics. Additional communications via Zulip and a blog post are planned. Agenda details continued to be worked on with proposed speakers.

### Topic #3
David provided an Elected Delegate special election update. Nominations have closed and nominees are being confirmed, with announcement of candidates planned for February 13th. Voting is scheduled to open on February 16th and continue through March 6th.

### Adjournment
There being no other business to come before the meeting, it was adjourned at approximately 11:05am PT.

David Bryant  
Secretary for the meeting